 I'll do one pop. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Stay of okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become the Tickly Plot, guys. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi Gary. No, I said done my friend. No, I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. I said done. December 12, 1799. All right. President George Washington, 30 months into his retirement, now 68 years old, rode his horse during a heavy snowstorm to inspect his plantation at Mount Vernon. That's his home for people who don't know. The temperature was 30 degrees Fahrenheit. All right, he was outside from 10 in the morning until 3 p.m He was late for dinner and because he was proud of always being on time He stayed in his damp clothes throughout the meal This okay, this is just something that they weirdos did back then what is this a classic weird old people thing I mean insane. It's fucking not just go change your fucking clothes. No one cares You may accidentally join the polar bear club on land. I am NOT going to be late for this here meal What you're you're wet. No, you're a walking icicle. No, I don't want to be rude. I don't Rather die rather sit here and perish rather die Well the next morning Washington said he had a sore throat. Yeah. Yes, he did Because he fell in ice on land But he still got on his horse and went back out into the snowstorm to mark trees He wanted cut down on the property When he came back into his home he sounded a bit hoarse Huh? I mean, this is the first precedent of our country. Yeah, actually he's more like the sixth But we don't talk about the first five. Well, okay, and at this point had no teeth right He was still in good spirits and read passages from the newspaper to his wife and his personal secretary Colonel Lear Okay, that's weird already. I love that. His personal secretary was a colonel and named Lear while he's with his wife. He's like, yeah Yeah Something was like a literal Dave Listen, I I'm having fun and I'm gonna continue to have fun Lear wanted Washington to take some medicine, but George was not down quote You know, I never take anything for a cold. Let it go as it came Classic Washington quotes. Yep They don't they talk about the cherry tree one, but they don't talk about that quote very much. No No, I wonder why late that night around 3 a.m. Washington awoke and told his wife that he felt quite ill. Yeah. Yes He was having difficulty breathing and could barely breathe He was having difficulty breathing and could barely speak Martha wanted to walk to another building on Mount Vernon and wake up their maid Caroline to go get help But George thought the cold air would make his wife sick. Well, then what the fuck was he doing? He said he knows Well, she had just gotten over a cold. So what he knew he knows the cold makes you sick And then he sits in his house and his wet clothes because he doesn't want to be late He goes out the next day. Yeah, well, he's got stuff to do. He's going to die I know that's what's about to happen. I don't know what's happening. You don't know what's happening is going to die With the cool the title of this episode is called the death of George Washington, by the way, well here we go So he forbid her his wife from going outside he just sat in no no no, let me die instead He just sat in bed suffering. Yeah, I've got this Martha Martha. No, I don't want you to Even if you bundled up and didn't go out of wet clothes, you might you might get a cold just forget about it I'll just die. Oh, that's bus Coming out of me. Oh When Caroline the maid came at sunrise she found George in very bad shape He was having severe respiratory distress You want to you just want to believe that he was a very smart person Well, Steve Jobs could have could be alive, but he tried a homeopathic cure for cancer Don't get on the guy who made the iPod case Caroline went to get Colonel Lear who was then sent who was already watching everything Who then sent for Albert Rollins the estate overseer Rollins then prepared a medical concoction consisting of molasses vinegar and butter Okay, so he's giving him beer taffy Yes He's giving him beer taffy I mean apothecaries existed in like the 1600s the foot like how the fuck is that if you can't Swallow you get some molasses vinegar and butter and you Actually stir it all up and you take a chug. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Uh-huh. Wait a minute Wait a minute. This is the greatest combo on earth. Wait a minute I think what we're talking about is vinegar And he's about to drink that Washington tried to swallow it and he went into what is described as an episode of convulsive Boy that has got to be real crazy when you're like here give him this and then he's like worse right away Well, Jesus, I really thought the butter would work I really thought that butter would break that molasses down better Look if I have a cold if I were to drink that I would be like, oh my god I really thought that butter would break that molasses down better look if I have a cold if I'm having a really bad coughing Attack or in a sore throat or whatever. I will just eat butter. Oh man. Nothing suits it like butter That's why they have I can't believe it's not butter throat spray. That's right. Yeah So then Washington decided that bloodletting would be the way to go Okay, so At what point is somebody who knows what a good option is going to come into the picture soon? Okay, Washington was a big believer in bloodletting. He had used it on his slaves many times with great success He told Rollins to put a needle into his arm and take some blood specifically a half a pint So Rollins did as was told Rollins was the one who performed the bloodletting a lot of the swathes as well because he was the estate manager So he had a little bit of practice at this. Yeah, my guess is right now. It's not going to help Martha was opposed to opposed to bloodletting and pleaded that they not remove much blood After the half pint was removed a piece of flannel was dipped in salve Latola and placed on his neck. I could not find anywhere what salve latola is Well, I think we know what we're dealing with for the most part. So it was a terrible decision had a bit Then his feet were put in warm water I mean like, you know, not that that's a bad decision, but it's he's he's dying. We don't know that He's just got a cold told me the title. Well, they don't know that yet Messengers were sent to summon local doctors. Dr. James Craig his personal physician for over 40 years Dr. Gustavus Richard Brown and Dr. Alicia Colin Dick The name is Colin Dick Colin Dick C-U-L-L-E-N Dr. Colin Dick There's not a loophole that gets this person out of a little bit of a snicker I mean his name is Dr. Dick Colin Dick like he's calling for dick. He is calling for dick. Hello Hey, is Dr. Colin Dick there? This is Colin Dick That's it. Bye That's it. Bye. That's all you need. Oh my god. I can't wait till the phone is invented. Yeah. Yeah Yeah When he's outside the window hello, that's what Craig calls used to be When Dr. Craig arrived he was alarmed at the condition of Washington. Craig quickly applied a painful quote blister of Cantharides better known as Spanish fly at the time. He applied them to Washington's neck This was a preparation of dried beetles And the blisters raised by this tonic stuff would supposedly draw out the deadly humors causing Washington's throat inflammation What? What What the what? It's a medicine Okay, remember when I said they should get a doctor. Yeah, they got one. Don't get doctors My god, he's dying put beetles on his throat Hurry it was a different time. It was a different time The application of the beetles led to a spontaneous bowel evacuation Jesus, I mean, this is the first president They just put beetles on his neck and he shit his pants Yeah I mean, this is quite a day. This is a terrible day. This is not good This is a very bad terrible day god. He's so far. They've poured molasses down his throat They've taken a high half a pint of blood out of him Yeah, they put blister beetles on his neck and he just shit the bed. He just shit himself So now Craig then took more blood What about 40 ounces? I mean, that's a lot. He could sell in old English Then he he prepared a solution of vinegar in hot water and tried to get Washington garglet Which doesn't sound that bad. I mean vinegar and hot water that could be something that I would say that might work Maybe yeah But this led to near suffocation and a bout of horrible coughing. Oh my god, so he took more blood This is like this is tough to hear. I feel like I'm invent. I feel like I'm watching this So he took more blood another 40. Why is he taking more blood? Because it's helping. He's a fucking psycho He might just be selling president blood Washington was still strong enough to walk about his bedroom for a bit and to sit upright in an easy chair for a few hours His real challenge was breathing once he returned to lying flat on his bed Dr. Dick arrived at 3 p.m And immediately removed 32 ounces of blood. Okay. All right, so okay now Are they okay now So they're just taking all of his blood out of his body well, it's all helping no No, you know that that's not true. And so they're just taking a Tremendous amount of blood out of him. It's fine. It's not fine. It's not It's hurting him. He needs blood. You don't know that. No, no, no. I know how bodies work. He needs blood Well, maybe no for sure. No for sure Especially when he's sick. I would say that he should have a lot of his blood When dr. Brown arrived don't fucking tell me that he took any of his fucking blood. No, his name's dr. Brown Okay, he took Washington's pulse and decided it was best to give him an enema Oh my god, so dr. Brown dr. Brown So is the enema guy I mean That didn't have any effect brown then suggested Calomel and tartar For him to gargle which would guarantee to make Washington vomit with a vengeance. What are okay? Are they they're not Trying to kill him. It's a contest to kill him. He thought he would throw up the thing in his throat What is the thing in his throat? I think it's his throat. Yeah, it's nothing. It's an invented thing They've invented a thing that's in his throat He's just really sick and needs his blood At this point Washington started to get the feeling that this was all in vain Well, what he I mean literally it's they're just taking his blood from his veins Well, they're giving him medicine, too No, they're not they're not giving him medicine up his who hole from dr. Brown. He already shit making him throw up the bed Dr. Brown comes in. He's like, let's get him to shit the bed again the butter and molasses I just took all of his blood. Hmm. Maybe I'll just get him to shit the bed. Let's put ketchup his asshole Okay, everyone. I've got a good idea Let's put ketchup in the president's asshole. He called the colonel lear over a cigar on his eye Everyone treat him like an ashtray. We'll help him Come on guys. Come in here. Kick him in the head kick his head really hard guys Uh, he called stab his dick everyone take one of these Letter openers and stab his prick with them There we go There are I think he's gonna be a little bit more aggressive There we go. There are I think you'll get better He called the colonel lear over and gave his death instructions Was it let the doctors continue? Quote I find I am going my breath cannot last long. I believed from the first that the disorder would prove fatal Do you arrange and record? Do you arrange and record all my late military letters and papers? Arrange my accounts and settle my books as you know more about them than anyone else Let mr. Rollins finish recording my other letter, which he has begun When dr. Craig came back in the room, Washington told him he was dying He then told all three doctors. I feel myself going I think I thank you for your attentions, but I pray you take no more troubles about me Let me go off quietly. I cannot last long He then thanked the three doctors for their efforts That last part's insane I mean literally if he hadn't called the doctors. He probably would have been okay. They're helping no, they're not I mean, I remember when the Beatles on the neck was crazy That was just that's before dr. Brown came to make brown town The three doctors remained by his bedside throughout the night at 8 p.m. Ignoring Washington's request what no death No, dad Dave Dave Dave. What he was very clear He was probably just being polite No, no, i'm dying you go everyone go They applied blisters of the dead beetle stuff to his arms and legs and a soft wet mass of wheat bran to his throat And kept it in place with a wet cloth I I just I swear to god they can't take any more of his blood Well, that's That's a pretty picture right there just covered in beetles Yeah, and and a wheat a wet wheat mass on his neck He may as well be six feet underground while this is happening. Washington is going out in glory Yeah, he's I mean covered in beetles As is it's like he's having a bad acid trip as his breathing became worse. Dr. Dick proposed that his trachea be perforated I'm like I mean honestly it pop a hole in that bitch. It's like it's like a rash that just Stopped scratching and it might get better soon Instead they're like we need to just keep we put sandpaper on the rash try to sandpaper it off Recently they're gonna put a hole in his throat Well recently this operation had saved lives But dr craig and dr brown did not allow dr dick to cut a hole in washington's throat Even though dr dick said he would assume all responsibility. Listen, never let dr dick cut a hole Trust me Washington then told colonel lear I am just going have me decently buried and do not let my body be put into the vault less than three days after i'm dead Do you understand me? Tis well, he replied Washington said this because at the time there were concerns about burying someone who was not actually dead Many people at the time knew of cases in which a seemingly dead person came back to life The washington's new woman who had heard a story told to her by an older gentleman In the summer of 1790 he had suffered an illness when he was 20 and on the ninth day of his illness he died His family and the doctor were convinced that he was dead But his mother would not allow him to be prepared for burial They gave into her wishes and allowed the dead man to remain on the bed for a while The body was there quote the residue of the afternoon the ensuing evening and through the whole of the long winter night until the ensuing morning The body continued an undoubted corpse then lo to the astonishment of everyone who Waited the event with a gentle sigh the heartsick and man Once more open his eyes upon the fleeting scenes of time So washington didn't want because of that rumor. Well, they thought that yeah They thought that people were getting buried too early. So he was like that kid was 20 He also hadn't been all his blood item and taking out. He's this guy's 77 as I said is The only thing they said no to was cutting a hole in his throat right now. He's like beetle juice He's just fucking literally is beetle juice He's covered in beetles and he's leaking His breathing became less labored around 10 p.m Ten minutes later, he checked his own pulse and then died at the foot of his bed Martha said is he gone tis well all is now over. I shall soon follow him. I have no more trials to pass through The cause of washington's death has been debated ever since I know what it was. J. A. Negger nediger believes the president died of diphtheria Walter wells explained that he died of acute inflammatory edema of the larynx He was a very good doctor. He was a very good doctor He was a very good doctor. He was a very good doctor. He was a very good doctor Walter wells explained that he died of acute inflammatory edema of the larynx due to a virulent microorganism probably strep lococus Strep throat. Yeah, but he didn't die from strep today This is a common belief of what killed washington although recent arguments push the idea of acute bacterial epiglytis Epiglytis which can rapidly obstruct the respiratory passage and cause a suffocating death Then there was the blood removal The estimate of the amount of blood taken from washington by medical authorities is between five to seven pints Oh my god, six weeks after his death. Dr. James brickel wrote a article vehemently disagreeing with the bloodletting treatment He estimated the amount of blood removed to be 82 ounces and deplored the lack of medical wisdom of this decision quote I think it my duty to point out what appears to me a most fatal error in their plan Old people cannot bear bleeding as well as the young We see that they drew from a man in his 16 69th year of his age the enormous quantity of 82 ounces Or above two quarts and a half of blood in 13 hours. I mean that is insane very few he was sick very He was already sick Hey, man, it worked on some of the slaves on the plantation Very few of the most robust young men in the world could survive such a loss of blood But the body of an age person must be so exhausted and all his power so weakened by it As to make his death speedy and inevitable And yet dr. Brackel was not completely against bloodletting He just thought it should have been done closer to the site of the inflamed body part and less But blood should have been taken like that matters Quote to have attacked the disease as near its seat as possible the vein under the tongue might have been opened The tonsils might have been sacrificed this Garificator and cup might have been applied on or near the thyroid college So what he said instead of taking the blood from the arm they should have gone right to the head Yeah, just taking it right from underneath the tongue. Oh my god. I mean so that guy's talking sense Yeah, I mean it says a lot when you're like, uh, dr. Brown. Can you come over instead? Okay, so the total amount of blood actually taken from Washington was 126 ounces or what 3.75 liters Taking over a period of nine to ten hours on Saturday, December 14 1799 I mean that's all of his blood washington was six foot three inches tall and weighed 230 pounds adult blood volume is 70 milliliters per kilogram, so Estimated blood volume of washington would be seven liters This means they removed more than half of his blood. They took half of his blood This led to paternal anemia Hypoglycemia and hypotension they took half of his blood the fact that he stopped struggling that evening and appeared calm Just before he died was probably due to shock Because they took half of his blood because half of his blood was gone Now another doctor came Wait, william thorton. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry This is the he's dead William Thornton was a physician trained at the best medical schools in europe. He also designed the library Company of philadelphia and the u.s. Capital So he was a man who ran in top circles and he was close friends with george washington When washington was sick someone at mount Vernon asked Thornton to come to see if he could help He immediately took off in hope of getting there in time to perform a tracheotomy Interesting, but he arrived the morning after washington died quote my feelings at that moment I cannot express I was Overwhelmed with the loss of the best friend I had on earth The weather as stated was very cold and washington's corpse was basically frozen for several days so Thornton had an idea blood transfusion Uh, dave dave dave dave. What are you fucking doing right now? This was not new the first successful blood transfusion. How long has he been dead days? Yeah. No, it's overnight. I think He's dead The first successful blood transfusion recorded was done by an english doctor named richard lauer in 1665 He bled a dog almost to death and then brought it back to life by transfusing blood from another dog through a tied artery So that guy was cool. Yeah, that guy was cool the dogs in 1667 the physician duking lewis the 14th jean baptiste denis Performed an animal to human blood transfusion He took the blood from a sheep and put it into a 15 year old boy who survived who became lamb boy With the ability to grow hair faster than an average human or sheep He he would have no powers at all. Yeah. No, he'd be like Uh is is kryptonite is a fence if you you know, if you let us sheeps if you don't shear our sheeps Yeah, they go eventually will die really. Yeah, it's a really bad animal this uh, they uh Dr. Denny later did the same thing to a laborer a gentleman Uh blood transfusions were soon outlawed in many european countries because of failed attempts Uh in america in 1795 just four years before washington's death a doctor philip feisick Performed a blood transfusion on a obstetric patient He did not publish his results and there is no detailed account of the procedure This is apparently the only blood transfusion he performed even though he did not publish the account Thornton also practiced medicine for a time in philadelphia and may have known about the procedure Both doctors also attended the same medical school Oh boy, this is what thornton proposed in his own words. Oh boy, and he said this to martha washington Who just gotten over the death of jordan the weather was very cold And he washington remained in a frozen state for several days I proposed to attempt his restoration in the following manner First to thaw him in cold water Then lay him in blankets and by degrees and by friction to give him warmth and to Put into activity the minute blood vessels at the same time to open a passage to the lungs by the trachea And to inflate them with air to produce an artificial respiration And to transfuse blood into him from a lamb So what he wanted to do was take george's corpse. He'd been dead for a few days Uh freezing up there in the bed because he remember he didn't want to be buried for three days So he'd been there for a couple days. So he wanted to take the president's body over by the fire Rub it. Yeah thaw him like a caveman and uh, yeah, rub it warm rub it warm Yeah, then poke a hole in the neck. Yeah, and then fill him with lamb and then fill him with lamb blood. Yep Any questions about what I want to do to the founding president? If these more means had been resorted to and had failed all that could be done would have been done But I was not seconded in this proposal for it was deemed unavailing I reasoned thus he died by the loss of blood and the want of air restore these with the heat that had been subsequently deducted And as the organization was in every respect perfect. There was no doubt in my mind that his restoration was possible so And it's simple math the man died from a lack of blood and he couldn't breathe and he's cold So warm that fucker up pop a hole in his neck and get some blood in that bitch Yeah, but it doesn't work if someone's dead and he will just sit up and go out mate Never better man Washington is back. I'm back brains So he just wanted to bring washington back from the dead That's better to say no martha and the rest of washington's family passed on the terrific idea Thornton was not happy. He didn't get a shot at it 20 years. Come on. Let me put lamb blood in him 20 years later He he wrote Whether if it were possible it would be right to attempt to recall to life one who had departed full of honor and renown free from the frailties of age in the full enjoyment of every faculty and eternity and for eternity so That didn't happen, but that would have been awesome if it had yeah that had been really cool to fill him with lamb blood while he was dead and frozen So washington's death was fucking horrific. Are you sure what happened? Yeah, terrible. They just drained him no one in america Gets out. Okay. Well, I mean what the fuck You would think that he would have access to like smart doctors Well those and there wasn't a smart doctor in the bunch well Even the last one well the one guy wanted to do a tracheotomy. I mean that might have helped Okay him, but i'm sure that at some point he made him either shit his pants or like, you know put beetles in his ears I don't know. Yeah, I do know I just heard about it Fucking unbelievable. Anyway, that's your um Yeah Very first president. Yep. There he is curious how he died. Okay. Yep. He died because doctors took all of his blood Merry christmas. Yep Hi everybody, this is gareth reynolds from the dollar podcast This is the show you're listening to wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up july 22nd through the 25th I'll be at comedy on state in madison wisconsin august 5th. I'll be in phoenix arizona at cb live Then i'll be at the rally improv august 6th through the 8th And i'll be at hyenas in dallas texas august 19th join me there or join me the next night august 20th the state theater in austin Or texas if that doesn't work for you join me august 21st at the rec room in houston texas Uh, and then i'll be at the spokane comedy club in spokane washington august 26 the following night I'll be at the tacoma comedy club august 27th go to gareth reynolds