 You're listening to the dollop. This is a bi weekly podcast. Listen, someone sent a tweet saying the bi weekly was not right. Then we recorded three episodes and the whole thing was like, well, bi weeklies off the table. It turns out that person was fucking wrong and needs to pick up a dictionary. Bi weekly in Websters and other dictionaries all over the world agrees bi weekly is twice a week or it can mean every other week. So suck it. That's the reality. I'm not going to say semi weekly. Thanks for all your ideas. It's bi weekly. I was right. Back off. Anyway, this is a bi weekly podcast. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about. I didn't even say the part where I read you a story. I'm ready whenever. Not Gary Gareth. They've okay. Someone or something is tickling. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling podcast. You are queen fakie of made up town. All hail queen shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. Nobody. May 11th, 1861. Oh, boy. You're right. Yeah, that's just you got me on that one. Frederick Russell Barnum was born in Minnesota. Okay. A year later from their log cabin, his parents watch as the sky turned red as a nearby town was set on fire. So we're jumping right in. The Lakota Wars had begun. Okay. You love the Lakota Wars. Yeah. It's one of your favorites. I've always said the Lakotas are one of my favorite wars. Yeah. The town was burned down. Hundreds of people are killed in the Lakota Wars. Okay. It's not it's not a fun war. On behalf of the dollop. We're sorry to sorry the Dakota War. Did I call the Dakota War? Yeah. Anyway, the Lakota. Yeah. Well, the Lakota. The Lakota. Yeah, but that actually the Lakota Tech started the Dakota War. It's gonna be a lot of poetry. His dad was a Presbyterian minister. Okay. So a year later, his dad was away. A year after the town was on fire. So look at things if if there's going to be a town burned to the ground, go ahead and leave your kids and your wife in a remote cabin. Absolutely. Same goes. His mother Rebecca was happened to be standing at the door and she's brushing her hair. So she's standing at the door brushing her hair. So mentally she's in a good spot. And then she saw Lakota Warriors coming out of the forest, you know, getting in position. They're gonna do some business. That's time to put the brush down. So she really quickly she she knew that she wasn't going to survive if you try to run with a little two year old Frederick, you know. Because two year olds. Yeah, it's hard to carry. I'll be honest. They leave. I get out. Yeah, you leave about yourself. You can have another one, which she did. She grabbed him and she slipped him into a pile of freshly shucked corn. Okay. Right in the middle. And she said, don't fucking move. Did he know that command? Well, she said, don't move. Be quiet. Don't make a sound. I would imagine at this age at two year old, the Indians are coming is the same thing as don't touch that plug. Yeah, but still. I mean, it might just be that we're dealing with like better behave two year old. Yeah, it's possible. So then she ran for it and she made it to a neighbor's house about six miles away. Close. Right. What a nice. That's not it. That's not a neighbor. Neighbors used to be six miles. Well, my neighbor. I'm going to go get some milk. That's another town. She spent the night there, came back in the morning. Cabin is completely burned down. Nothing left. Just a heap of nothing. But there was Frederick sitting right in the green corn. That's where she left him because the fire, the fire burned the corn because it was green. Right. And he just stayed quiet. And the Indians were like, we're going to have maize. We don't need any more corn. Get it out. We don't need that. Then he go near the corn. Seven years later, Frederick's dad was injured and he punctured a lung. And so the family moved to Los Angeles. That's, you've heard it a million times. But that, because the weather was the weather is better here for punctured lungs in case anybody ever. Oh, no, this is a great heat for a punctured lung. If you have a hole in your lung, get out here for the summers. That's right. Because God, there's a whole punctured lung hotel. Oh, it's great. It's the punctured hotel. Still, he didn't last long and he died a couple years after they got here. Fred's mom went back east. Okay. He's like, I can't do this anymore. Fred stayed in Los Angeles. He just put him in corn again. She's like, stay in the corn. Mom is going east. He delivered telegrams from Western Union on horseback. Okay. So he would do that day and night. Like it was one of the situations where you would hop on a horse, you would ride until that horse was toast and then you'd get to the next station. You'd hop on another horse and you'd go. There was that kind of day. You just keep going until you got the message to where it needed to be. Jesus. And you probably made like a buck a year. I didn't realize it was so lucrative. So, he was 13 years old. Jesus. 13. It's a different time. It's a time when you look at your 13 year old and go, I'm moving back east. Do you want to come with me? No, I'll stay here and have a real job. So at 14, he had some religious members of his family who were a little bit worried about living alone out there in Los Angeles and that he was going to go to hell. My relatives have the same worry. Yeah, they should. David. So they summoned him. They said, come on out to live with us in Iowa. We're going to put you on the right path. He gave it a shot, was not down with the boring life in a small town. So one night he stole a canoe and headed down the mighty Mississippi. Well, he probably hated the corn too. Yeah. He's probably like, no. Corn just makes me tired. I don't like corn. I have to sit still around it. Yeah. Shit. All right. You guys go ahead. I'm going to be in this field not making a noise. Memories. Okay, so now he's left Iowa and he's just headed down the Mississippi. So he stops and he goes on foot and he makes his way to Texas. Look it's a kid. He's 14. Didn't you do this when you were 14? He makes his way to Texas. He runs into some old frontiersmen who he starts hanging out with. I mean, it's like, this is what you did. It's also like what grown men are like, come here, 14 year old, you're in the fold. A 14 year old to a grown man is like another grown man back then. It's true. But that's like, hey, bro, what's up? How are you? You're not as young as you used to be. An old scout took a liking to Frederick and started teaching him how to be a scout. Like a scout as far as like scouting land as far as like. Scouts would go out and like do stuff like make sure the territory ahead was safe. So they kind of. They would look for certain things, right, the water, where's the like all that shit. Right. They kind of like this sort of like a GPS back much like a GPS. Sure. Is their version of ways. Yeah. Yeah. OK. Now I now I see what's happening. So that guy took Frederick out on a six month trip through the desert and taught him the craft of scouting. It sounds like a fucking nightmare. Good time between the old man and other frontiersmen. Fred became a great scout. Next he taught himself to shoot. OK. He taught himself a pistol practice over and over again until he was good enough to shoot a cork into the air and then shoot it while still in the air. Wow. That's pretty good. Shoot a cork into the air and then re shoot that cork. He put the cork like on a fence post. And he'd shoot it. He'd shoot it. It would fly up. Airborne cork. He'd re shoot it. He'd shoot it again. So he's basically doing his own like clay pigeons. He's basically a circus. OK. The most difficult thing about being a scout was getting used to being alone. They always worked alone. The most difficult thing was dealing with hunger. Right. They just wouldn't eat. They couldn't eat. Well, you're you're like sometimes when you're scouting, you're amongst the enemy. So you're just slithering on your belly and you can't get up and go, I'm going to have a sandwich. I mean, I'm sure you can. Listen, I'm just saying you put me in that time. I'm not going hungry. I'll have like pocket sandwiches and I'll figure out a way to do it. You have your pocket Sammy goes bad after a while. Well, how long am I? Days. Days. I've been on the ground for days. He's a fucking scout. See, I'm thinking that scout sort of is like, all right, guys, I'm going to trot up ahead a hundred yards and just make sure we're all good. No, no. So you're out there for days. Days. He's OK. All right. Still, I need a pocket. Bad pocket sandwich better than no sandwich. I've always said that. He started to see the stomach as the weakest part of the man. Stomach is the thing that would let a man down. Hmm. It wasn't for the fucking stomach. So now. So now, now I'm a little worried. You should be OK. Now I'm a little scared because now we have a problem and I don't like the time for solutions when he actually started working his scout, protecting mining camps and guarding gold prospectors. Uh huh. He found eating normal food very difficult. For instance, he couldn't cook over a fire because, you know, fire. You can't have a fire because people see the fire. You can have a pocket fire. I'm just saying I want you to buy my line of pocket survival gear. We have pocket fires on sale on the dollar. Sorry. Actually, the man who bought the first pocket fire is actually fully on fire and his pocket sandwiches are ruined. We haven't worked that out. That's a kink. That's a kink. Pocket sandwiches are still available as well as pocket liquids. He did find ways to keep himself fed like hammering deer jerky into a powder and making deer cake that he'd eat for a week. I mean, yes, nobody's. Did you want the chocolate or the vanilla or deer or the deer cake? He would pound it. Yeah, I hear you. He'd pound the jerky. Why not just eat the jerky? He'd pound the jerky. That's what I'm saying. Into a powder like a flour, like a floury something. And then what? He just made a fine. And then he'd substitute deer, deer for flour. But he could. Make himself a cake. But he could. How do you make a cake without fire? No, he would make it before he left. Then why not have a regular fucking cake? What Chris? Cakes not going out there with chocolate. He has other options for shit. Chocolate cake. I'm not saying I'm not saying cake, but I'm sure there's another option besides deer cake. I would say keep the deer jerky and listen, if you want to meet in the middle there, I'm fine with that. The man of one diet is hopelessly handicapped, he wrote. Man's stomach can be trained to adopt itself to many strange uses. Fred did spend time trying to strike it rich in the gold country. He didn't make much, but he made enough to send for the girl that he had met and loved in Iowa. I didn't know there was a girl he met and loved in Iowa. Yeah, I left that part out. I'm getting to it now. Well, I would have liked to have known about this girl in Iowa when it was happening. Apparently, there's a girl he met in Iowa that he loved. Well, I'm excited to hear where this goes. She came out and they got married. All right. He's like 15 or something. It's time. They moved to Pasadena. Oh, I know it well. And he tried to become an ordinary guy, this time by farming oranges. Beats deer cake. Super not down with it. Did not enjoy the normal life. He was dreaming about Africa. He liked to read about Africa when he was young. He said it called to him. There in what at this time was known as the Cape Colony, which later became South Africa, was a prime minister named Cecil Rhodes and Fred was a big fan of Cecil Rhodes. And he figured Cecil probably needs a good scout. Now, OK, so the thing about what can happen nowadays is you can find out what that guy thinks scout lies before you make a trip. So I'm assuming that there's some version of, you know, Atlantic Union that he just took his wife and kid. No to Cape Colony on January 1st, 1893. OK, so he didn't. He did. He got a job. He worked as a scout and he fought for Rhodes Cape Colony. OK, he fought in different countries, different African countries, not just just any country to Sweden. He went to Sweden from the Cape colonies to Sweden and then finally check the Czech Republic and Czechoslovakia. He went to. So he went there and he fought in different African countries. He had a second child, a daughter who died during a plague that swept through the city they were in during a siege when he was out fighting. Dealing with your children dying was just a very matter of fact thing. Yeah. Then, although he when he learned about it, he was completely devastated. He I mean, when he learned about it, how long did it take for him to learn about he was out on the front fighting? He was fucking he's just out there in deer cakes while the plight sweep through the goddamn town. Sometimes it wouldn't just scout. Sometimes he shoot and kill. He's not just fucking laying on his tummy. He gets in the business. So the scout business sounds like a dogshit business. Yeah, it's not great. So then he received some critical information about the enemy. Their religious leader and commander was hiding in a cave. Fred was sent in to assassinate him. He snuck into the cave. Jesus, that's not fun. And he shot the leader through the heart while thinking of his daughter. Wow. Yeah. All right. Yeah. All right. He then fled the cave before the commander's men could get him. And as he fled the area, he lit villages on fire as he went. That's a real that's a nice that's a nice way to leave. Yep. I mean, yeah, vengeance is mine. I believe that. So and I'm going to make a big, big show when I go. So he brave hearted the air brave hearted the shit out of it. OK, I like I like the visual. Then he heads back to America at the age of 60. No, sorry. Thirty six. I seriously thought you were going to say 16. He tried to find gold again this time in Alaska, but admitted to a friend he missed the action in Africa and hoped that if fighting started again, they would need him. Yeah. He wouldn't miss out on it because it's so fun. Of course it did. Lucky him. The new British commander asked him to return. So this was the second Boer War. The Boer War? Boer. B-O-E-R. Boer War. Said a bunch of different ways. Yeah. Boer War. Boer War. The lead scout of the Boer was known as the Black Panther. Interesting. Doesn't sound boring. He was described as, quote, walking, living, breathing, searing, killing, destroying, torch of hate. I mean, was that his hype man? That's pretty, I mean, that is quite the resume right there. Now coming is the walking, living, breathing, searing, killing, destroying, torture of hate, Black Panther. And in the red corner from Los Angeles and Iowa. Frederick. Frederick the Corn Napper. Go get him, Corn Napper. So he spent, so the entire war, Fred and the Black Panthers spent trying to kill each other because they were both the lead scouts. They were both doing a lot of damage. They were both trying to get each other. OK. So it is kind of like how movies would frame a war. Yeah, it is exactly like that. Meanwhile, Fred was sent to constantly infiltrate the enemy and sabotage as much as possible. One time he hid inside of an aardvark hole for two days. You mean an aardvark's asshole? No, no, the aardvark's not in it. It's not part of the aardvark. He hid inside of an aardvark's asshole. He thinks he's like all the way in and it's just over his eyes. They can't see me in this aardvark anus. All right, I'm going to eat a deer cake and then I'll scoot over there. What? It smells like ants. Yeah, I'll tell you what. This whole area smells like anus. Everywhere I turn it smells like shit. All right, we got to dig deep. Another time he floated down a river disguised as a dead cow. How? He just got a fucking cow's stomach got inside and just moved? He got a fleshy hide and then he cut two eye holes out of it so he could see and they just floated down the river. Amazing. This guy's fucking awesome. It was said his senses and abilities were similar to a wild predators. He could go two and a half days without water. He could fix a broken pasture mainstream with some buffalo bone. I don't even know what that is. I mean, what was any of that? He could smell water from far away and he never drank or smoked. He could smell water? If you're that good, you can smell water. No, no, no, shut up. Over here there's water. That's a vanilla cream. I'll tell you, it still smells a little bit. Wait, that's Starbucks. Yeah, it still smells a little bit like an aardvark's asshole around here but I think over here is water. Frappuccino, I got to take this aardvark head off me. You know what? Now that I'm thinking about it, is it even a disguise? Or do I just look crazy? Look, Fred's going to come over. Don't look at the aardvark. Hey guys, what's going on? How we doing? Pretty low key. You think they see us? You guys should get a better disguise. You look like a couple of sore thumbs over here. What? The, uh, never mind. They can see you but not me. Commanding officer said he was half jackrabbit, half wolf and totally without fear. Now we got some hype man stuff. He was captured once but managed to hide who he really was from the boar. All the boar thought Fred was a godless monster so he argued when he was caught that God was real and started reciting poetry. So they were like, well this can't be the guy. Well he's certainly fucking crazy. That guy's a monster. Yeah. He's got to say he can be Fred. The amazing Fred doesn't like poetry. Fred. During the night he escaped. As he made his way back on a stolen horse, he was spotted by some boar and the horse was shot. It fell on him. He felt like his back was broken. Still he continued on his mission even though he was on foot and vomiting blood. He rigged a, so he still had his mission to do. Yeah. Even though he was captured and then his horse got shot and fell on him and broke his back and he was coughing up blood, vomiting blood. He still keeps going with his mission. Sure. Well as you should. He rigged, he went and rigged a train railway with explosives and blew it up. Hmm. Interesting. Then he climbed into a eucalyptus tree and hid as the boar fired up into the grove. They eventually gave up and moved on. I mean that has corn nap written all over it. This is a man koala. Yeah but this is a koala man. Yeah. But he also, I mean he's very comfortable in vegetables being quiet. You put him in anything green and you can't see him. Yeah. I was under the snap peas the whole time. Jesus, what's that on your head for? Just extra disguise. He was rescued by British soldiers and sent back to England to mend. There he was given the distinguished service order and was asked to dine with the queen. So he's the fucking shit. Time to know which one's a salad fork. Fred being the most humble man alive said the medal was so unnecessary that it was almost humiliating. Wow. Oh man. Hey, you need to learn how to say thank you. Yeah. It's Kanye's opposite. Sadly this was to be a terrible trip. Fred's third child drowned in the in the Thames. What? How? I don't know. Why are you letting your kids swim in the Thames? The fuck are you doing? I mean it's tough. That's a tough thing to that's you're going to have to label that bad parenting in some way. Yeah, it's not good. Drowning in the Thames. Thames. I called it Thames. Thames, Thames, whatever, bro. Again, this is a safe place. Again devastated. They returned to California and their home. It was while he was in Pasadena that he seriously started thinking about an idea that had struck him in Africa. Oh boy. He decided to write an article. There is in Africa a wonderfully varied range of interesting animals. Most of the desirable ones could easily be introduced to our own Southwest. Uh huh. Okay. Time to get a lion in New Mexico. The article was called Transplanting African Animals. It was published in New York's Independent Magazine in 1910. Fred was now 49 years old and very well known for his achievements. I'm excited to see the response to this thought. He was also known for telling stories of his time in Africa and those listening would find themselves unable to turn away. Okay. One woman told of sitting with a group as Fred told them of a particular African siege. At one point he paused and casually said, we'll kill that snake when I finish the story. No one had seen the rattlesnake that had come up behind them as he told his story. He's that good. I mean, he's that good. It's like Jason Bourne. Yeah. Telling stories. He's the first born. The first born born. So just the corn identity. Just a couple of months after the article was published, Fred found himself in front of the House Committee on Agriculture in Congress. There was a meat shortage at the time. Ranges had been destroyed by overgrazing and the price of beef was soaring. As the population of the US increased, the number of cows was dropping by millions of head a year. Oh boy. People began to whisper about having to eat dogs. Oh boy. I mean, newspapers were calling it the meat question. Oh dear. I don't like the meat answer already. America had been kicking ass for so long, but the meat question was making people think that maybe the country wasn't as strong as they thought it was. Amazing. We've always been. We've always thought from our fucking stomachs. Maybe we're not a great nation. Hey, I got an idea. Why don't we open up a sizzler? Well, listen, nobody. We're not leaving, are we? It's all you can eat shrimp. I don't know about the beef, but it's definitely all you can eat shrimp. Yeah. Come eat this shit. Sizzler. Maybe the US couldn't keep growing. Did you see that sizzler video that went around the commercial? Oh, I showed you that, right? It's fucking amazing. People should go watch this video from like 1990. We'll post it. It's amazing. It's like sizzlers trying to rebrand itself as really important culturally. Yeah. It's dynamite. It's tremendous. So people are thinking maybe the US can't keep growing and prospering. And yeah, there's not enough meat to fucking eat. So we're pussies now. It ends with meat. People yelled in the Carl's Jr. era. At the beginning of the committee hearing, the first day of testimony, a federal researcher said, in studying the resources of our country for a good many years, I was led to the conclusion that we ought to have more creatures than we are raising here. The bill being discussed was H.R. 23261. It was a bill to appropriate $250,000. I'm excited to hear for what? To import new animals to be farmed. What? I mean, what are they going? Like what? Gazelles? It was known as the Hippo bill. Oh my God. No, no. What? Oh God. The bill had been introduced by Congressman Robert Brassard of Louisiana. Brassard was a charismatic and loud. I reckon we ought to get a bit of Hippo. What I am saying here, gentlemen, because there ain't no ladies in here, gentlemen, is that there is a big round animal that just fucking floats. Imagine a big fat aquatic cow. Yeah. That's what we're dealing with. That is what we're dealing with. So they're going to fucking. We're going to get us some water cows. Hippos. Brassard was a charismatic and loud Democrat who. Hippos cannot be easy to catch back in this time either. They're violent and fast. You don't know that. I do know that. They are violent and fast. Brassard was known as Cousin Bob down in Louisiana. Isn't everyone? Hey, Cousin Bob. Cousin Bob. Hey, Cousin Bob. How you doing? Good to see you, Cousin Bob. This is Cousin Bob. Hey, Cousin Bob. Hey, look, it's little Cousin Bob. I'm over here with Cousin Bob. Where's your dad, Cousin Bob? Let's go down to Cousin Bob's and get a couple of Cousin Bob's. Brassard had wanted to import hippos to the U.S. to be used for meat for a while now, and someone recommended he speak to Fred. This wasn't Fred's first time trying to convince Washington that they should get on the African animal meat train. No, it's a catchy name, the African meat train. African animal meat train. After son died in England, drowned, he had gone to Washington to lobby for bringing in African animals. He wanted to bring in 30 varieties of antelope as well as other animals like giraffes to be imported and farmed in the American Southwest. He thought the animals could be protected by the government, then set loose. Hunters would hunt the great beasts and increase the nation's meat supply. Fred had even gotten his friends to pitch in $50,000 to start the program. Unbelievable. He met with Teddy Roosevelt. Teddy Roosevelt was down. Yeah, of course Roosevelt was. Bully! Let's get them all in here, all the goddamn animals in the fucking world. It would save me a trip. But then a political enemy of Roosevelt used the giraffe and antelope idea as part of an attack on the president and it worked. And Teddy abandoned the plan. But now it was four years later. And Congressman Brassard was leading the charge. And he was a political genius. But he was not pushing the hippo because of the meat situation. He was doing it because of a flower. What is happening? What? What do you mean? He did it because of a flower. What do you mean he did it because of a flower? He did it because of a flower. He wanted to bring... What? What are you saying? The water hyacinth were brought to New Orleans in 1884 by a Japanese delegation. Hello, we like your country. Here's a pretty flower. But it was like a bomb. It was like a flower bomb. Well, we'll get them back. The people of New Orleans loved the flower and planted them everywhere. And then the flower began to proliferate rapidly. It reproduces asexually. The flowers began to spread in waterways, clotting and drifting around the Mississippi like a big mass. By the time the hippo bill was introduced by Brassard, the flowers have been screwing things up in Louisiana for 10 years. There's only one way to deal with something that has been brought in unnaturally to your environment. And that's to bring in something unnaturally to your environment. You double unnaturally. Yeah, it's the double down. It's splitting aces. Let's get some hippos in here. Nothing can go wrong with hippos, right? Well, look, we obviously fucked up by planting those flowers. Let's bring in a bunch of hippos. Hippos and giraffes. Let's get them going. All right. Imagine giraffes roaming Arizona. Where are we? Shipping lanes were no longer possible. The flowers were overtaking rivers and wetlands and using all of the oxygen and killing the fish. Okay, good. You're dying because this one guy planted a flower. Fishermen were going bankrupt. The War Department was fighting the flowers, but it was an impossible battle. Okay, time to eat flowers. They would clear a stream and a month later, the flower would return. Well, that's tough. A veteran researcher at the Bureau of Plant Industry of the US Department of Agriculture named Irwin testified that the hippos were a double win. I love testifying. He is. I justify that this is a great idea. Sir, the hippos are awesome in two ways. So the hippos could eat the flowers and then we could eat the hippos. Then we could eat the hippos. Boom, boom, boom. It's like a food chain. It just three things. It's too crazy to not work. Irwin claimed no one ate hippos because no one has ever told them that eating hippos was a proper thing to do. Well, the same is for dogs. Yeah. Okay. Good point. He saw the meat question as a test of America's resolve to defend our freedom and our way of life. Some generations of Americans are called to go to war. This generation has been called to import hippos and eat them. That's a quote? No, I just hypothesized what he would. That would be amazing. You've heard of the greatest generation? We are the weightest generation. Let's get these goddamn hippos here. We'll eat the flowers. We'll eat the hippos. So the next Fred testified. He said it was bizarre that we only eat cows, pigs, and sheep in poultry. Why did we stop importing animals there? With time, we could make hippo barbecue just as normal. It sounds like the Flintstones. Fred was very persuasive. But when he was done, Broussard had one more witness to call. A hippo. It was the Black Panther. Whoa, what? What's he doing? I feel like that's like crocodile dundee-esque importation. He had a real name, Captain Fritz Dukins. Yeah, but what was his real name? I'm kidding. I'm not a Black Panther. I'm Fritz Dukins. Fritz Dukins had been born in Cape Colony in December 1877. He grew up on a farm with other boar families. His father was a hunter, so he was always away from home. As a kid, he'd repeatedly seen hunters return with hippos because they were the easiest animals to kill. They would divide the meat among the families and then Fritz would collect the fat and sell it to soap manufacturers. Just like any kid does. Just classic kid stuff. Go make some fucking hippo soap. Whatever. It's the weekend. He was sent to military school in Europe as a teen. Fritz was good looking, a ladies man, and had incredible confidence in himself. He was there when his father told him to come back and fight against the British. We're talking about the Second Boar War when he went against Fred. The Boar War War. Many boars were put into concentration camps by the British and soldiers like Fritz formed in small guerrilla units. He was captured twice and both times he escaped. The second time he was captured, he was sent to Lisbon, Spain. He quickly escaped and took off, but not until after he had screwed the jailer's daughter. Nice. Right? That's yeah. Dropping some panther dick. Who's not rooting for the panther at this point? I mean, the idea that you could get one over on the warden by escaping, but then you're like, and also? Come on, Panther, we're making a run for it. Hold on, I got one last thing to do. You guys go without me. I'll be there in a second. I got to go bang the warden's daughter. Panther? Panther what? Yeah. Yeah. You heard me. Yeah. Why do you think they call me the panther? That has nothing to do with being a panther. Listen, in this time that we've been debating this, I could be inside of the warden's daughter. He then went to England and told them he was a boar defector, joined the British army, got sent back to Africa to fight against the boar, and then joined the boar. That's great. It's getting flown out on their dime. He then saw the brutal devastation of the British. They were implementing a scorched earth policy. He went home, only discovers home was gone. An employee told him his uncle had been hung from a tree and stabbed repeatedly. His sister had been raped and killed and his mother raped and taken away. Fritz assumed his mother was at a nearby concentration camp and he headed for it. He put on his British uniform. It's a tough update. Yeah. Yeah. Well, now we find out why he's got... Listen. He might not like the British for the rest of the story. Yeah, I get why. He put on his British uniform, he entered the concentration camp and found his mother holding his seventh month old baby. Oh, shit. They both were starving and dying of syphilis. Oh my God. This is a good ending. This is like a Charlotte's Web type story that should be read to kids. Yeah, I would love to see what that spider'd write in the web about this shit. He told his mom he would kill 100 British soldiers for every drop of blood in her body. That's a lot of British soldiers. Can he do that math? I don't know, but he made a promise. Tough math. You make a promise to your mommy. So I'm gonna need to drain you. My next point is that I have to drain you fully. I gotta get this right. It's actually what they're doing to George Washington about now. As he rode away from the concentration camp, he passed two British soldiers who he saluted. All right. Then he shot them in the back after they had passed. He dismounted and kicked them both in the face. The order is normally different on that. But why not? Why not, right? Why not? Late in the war, the Black Panther was caught again and shipped to Bermuda with his hands and feet bound the entire way. He escaped within days and made his way to a port town called Hamilton. There he became a pimp. Alrighty. Hello. What is this guy is really? He's logging the miles. He's doing it. He's taking it all off. He's getting a lot of jobs. Well, what can I do here? What's here? Oh, vaginas. Well, I'll just sell women. Alrighty. He had a prostitute named Vera. He got her to use her time with clients to learn about the comings and goings of ships. You can say and goings quicker in that sentence sometimes. Goings. He needs to learn it from her about the comings. And goings. After learning a private yacht was going to leave for Baltimore, Fritz snuck onto the ship and hid in a hold. When the owner found him, he came to like Fritz and invited him on the journey. I mean, that's pretty, you got to be pretty fucking charming to be a stowaway who gets brought on as a guest. Right? Everyone's like, you're funny. You know what? I kind of like you. I'm the Panther. All right. That talk could stop a little bit. I fucked a jealous daughter. All right. Here, just have a beer. Relax a little bit. You've been in that hole for a while. You got any British on here? No. So he landed on American soil in July 4th, 1902. He made his way to New York and got a job selling papers. Then he became a reporter. And seven years later, he ended up meeting with President Teddy Roosevelt just as Fred had. Roosevelt was planning a big game hunting trip to Africa. It's pretty easy to get into Roosevelt's White House. It's like there's nine people. If you can say one interesting thing, he's like, come over for lunch. You just walk up and you go, hey, I like lions. And he's like, get him in here. Get your hands off of that man. Get in here, son. See, you like lions, do you? Tell me about the lions. So Teddy's going to Africa. He's like a five-year-old. And he's looking for men who had hunted in Africa to tell him about Africa. Right. Of course, that's Fritz. Yes. Roosevelt went on his hunting trip. And it was a big story in the US papers. And it was covered extensively. And Fritz took advantage of this writing syndicated columns called Hunting Ahead of Roosevelt. He then put his stories together. So he was basically telling stories about how he had hunted there before. Right. And then that's what Roosevelt was going to do. Right. Then he put his stories together into a show and took it on tour. I mean, how is he doing? Is he just trying to do everything? I guess it's that time when there's just shitty entertainment. Yeah. And so now he goes up and reads a story while he has a picture in the background and blah, blah, blah. And it's just terrible. And you believe this shit? Life was horrible and people were like, let television be invented. It's like we're there. So he just happened to be in Washington doing the show when Broussard was holding the committee hearing. Wow. That's lucky. So the Black Panther knew this was an opportunity to get people to go to his show. OK. And so he told the committee some stories. He said it was easy to domesticate a hippo. OK. Like, I mean, like, get my slippers domesticate. Maybe you could have in your backyard, that kind of thing. I think I have seen a story of someone who has like a domesticated hippo. Well, maybe the tiny one. But there's one. It's on TV. He said, baby hippos can be fed from a bottle like a baby. And you can walk them around on leashes. Sure. Of course. It's real easy to get a hippo to understand leash life. How great would the world be if we just had people had taken to this and made it? I would look people just walk on the street with a hippo. Look, I am just squirting it with a bottle. Yeah. And the drought people like the hippos are going to go. You know what? We can't keep the hippos that have those waters for the man. You're so selfish with your fucking hippos in your yard. Oh, you're always with the hungry, hungry, hungry. I get it. My joke. It is absolutely not dangerous, he said. He also said the meat was delicious and satisfying. Splendid food. Splendid food. He said the boars had fought well during the wars because they were eating hippos. Oh, God. He also said they should get antelope, giraffes and elephants. All were good eating. He's just going for it. His testimony was complete bullshit and everyone bought it. And how is this driving people to a show just because he can get his stories out in front of them? Well, it just gets his name. It's just great press. Sure. And the high-risk one is like the Black Panthers testifying. Oh, by the way, he's doing a show downtown. Sure. It's a little like when Charlie Sheen went ape shit and then just took a show on the road. That's exactly what it is. He just created so much buzz he had to do it. So the press went nuts for the idea of hippo meat. The Chicago Tribune wrote an article about the hearing and printed it just above an article about a famous steakhouse raising their prices because of dwindling meat supplies. Oh, God. Almost all of the papers use quotes of Fritz. The Washington Post wrote that it was only a matter of time before hippo shipments to the U.S. began. Hippo shipments. But since we've learned to eat crabs. Just bring 500 hippos to America and be like, that dude said it'd be cool. You know, you could do is you could just get like 50 of them, tie them together and then tug them behind a ship. Yeah. They just hang on the water. They can swim, too. Just maybe just get some guys on their backs. So since you've learned to eat crabs and oysters, the post reason we could also eat that plump and pull. Beast which had us. We could also eat that plump and large beast, which has a smile like an old fashioned fireplace. So they're they're basically they think they're important cartoon hippos. You can't say you can't describe something as having a smile like an old fashioned fireplace when you're talking people into eating. An animal doesn't like you also an animal doesn't smile. Hippo doesn't smile. They look like they have a smile. Hippo. It's not a smile. Have you seen the Madagascar movies? But Dave, again, you're talking about cartoon hippos. They're different. The New York Times said the also a lot of times if there's more than two of them, they'll break out into a huge chorus. They sing. They sing. The Times said the idea was practical and timely. The word was that hippo tasted good. The Times called the meat Lake Cow Bacon. I mean, that's maybe the dumbest thing I've ever heard. Just on a number like on so many levels like they're not like what do you like cow bacon? An agricultural department official stated that free range hippos in Florida, Mississippi and Louisiana could produce one million tons of meat a year. Oh, I mean, we're just we need to stop fucking caring about eating so much. It's unbelievable. People were excited by the idea. Broussard got letters from people who volunteered to go to Africa and bring the hippos back. That's like that's like Donald Trump. I got this. You want hippos? I'll get your goddamn hippos. I can get you 95 hippos by Thursday. Talking ones with the smile. I can also get you a smoking hippo. We don't need a smoking. I'm just letting you know that as far as the hippo community goes, I have many connections. Unfortunately, Broussard would have to wait until the next congressional session to get the bill going. In the meantime, he invited the old enemies, Fred and Fritz down to Louisiana to discuss plans for hippo importing. You mean Lake Cow Bacon. The other two men had tried to kill each other for years. It turns out they had a great respect for each other. They finally got to know each other. God, Fred thought the hippo project would cleanse Fritz of his past wrongs and set him on the right path. He wrote, I set out to win over the genuine Americanism, one of the most remarkable men I had ever met. Together, the three men began planning the New Food Supply Society. It's just, I mean, and the NFSS. The NFSS. And we all know how that worked. They sent letters back and forth discussing how to go about it. But Fritz was the man doing most of the work. After the hearing, he was sent to Louisiana on a fact-finding mission. Fritz hoped this hippo venture would turn into a full-time job. But more than anything, he wanted credit for the idea of hippo meat. But time was going by and nothing was happening. Fritz was getting frustrated. In October, New York World came out with an article giving credit of the hippo idea importation to a man named Frederick Holder. Holder was a fisherman. Fritz was pissed. He sent copies of the article to Fred and Broussard and demanded they send a correction to the press. Fritz was now completely losing it. Above all, he wanted credit. Everything else was secondary. I'm the fucking hippo guy. I'm Hippo Fritz. That's why they call me Hippo Fritz. Fritz, Fritz, Fritz, buddy, nobody's been calling you that, okay? Yeah, that's what they call me, Hippo Fritz. Okay, all right, but I'm just- Hey, what's my name, guy over there? Hey, Fritz. It's Hippo Fritz. It's Hippo Fritz. Well, that's what I'm saying, okay? It also sounds a lot like Hippo Fritz. What's on my T-shirt? Well, you hand wrote Hippo Fritz on your shirt, but this is like an intervention moment. Because it's my nickname. Because this is my idea. All right, maybe just take a nap, lay down. I can't sleep. Oh, boy. Not until the hippos are here. All right, bro. No, sleep till Hippo. Oh, God, that's what it says on the back. Hippo Fritz, and then he turns around and points both thumbs to it. Now sleep till Hippo. Things seem to be cooling off on the Hippo front, but Fritz wasn't going to let it go. In 1911, he began to consider starting his own Hippo importing business. Oh, my God. He organized banquets in New York and Washington, hoping to stir up investment. There he served springbok soup. I've had springbok, it's not bad. And Hippo croquettes. I was in South Africa, they had springbok. Well, I've always loved a Hippo croquette. He looked into the idea of bringing elephants to South America and selling them. I mean, now it's like desperate. Now it's just like, I'm going to send animals all over the fucking world. He was like, I want to be the biggest cocaine dealer in America. Now he's like, I want to just maybe sell a bag of Mali in Spain. He also almost pulled off an insane publicity stunt for a matchstick company. He was going to bring llamas from Peru and drive them as a herd from New York to Ohio. Wait, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Wait, tell me. He was going to a matchstick company, wanted a publicity campaign. Okay, let me stop you there. How does this help a match? Is this just sort of like... Line them up with llamas, I guess. Like branded entertainment. They're just like, we're just sponsoring the crazy shit. Yeah, it's just like, well, this is going to get attention and then people will know about it. So he's going to drive it straight to the matchstick plant. Okay, so he's taking the llamas from Peru. Peru, bringing them to New York City. Where they stay a couple days in a hotel to acclimate. How many would actually make this journey? I can't, they didn't say. A few. I would assume 30 or 40. It's very far. It's very far. If it's a herd, it's a lot of llamas. But it's still, it's very far. Right, but it's Fritz. It's very far. It didn't come to be. Why? I don't know. What part? Then word came that Teddy Roosevelt was planning on their hunting trip. This time in the Amazon. Oh God. Fritz saw another opportunity and sought investors to help him produce a movie. The plan was to go to Amazon and film what Roosevelt would see when he got there. He would then show the film on stage and narrate it. He ended up getting funding from a film company and the Goodyear Tire Company. The Goodyear Tire Company was paying him to look for rubber while he was in the Amazon. Did they know that they were getting swindled by him? I don't know. While you're there, will you promise to look for rubber? Yeah, I'll look for rubber. Can I have some money? Yeah, I'll give you money. But you swear to God, there is that rubber there. Okay, so I found some rubbers. You did? Where? Well, they were used. No, no, no, no. There's rubbers all in the slums. There's a lot of rubbers. Fritz, I speak on behalf of Goodyear. Here's the bag. We hate your guts. Get the bag and take it with you. By the way, what the fuck does the back of your shirt mean? No sleep till hippo? That's right, no sleep till hippo. We're getting the hippos here. Get out. Get the fuck out. Now. But right after you left for the Amazon, World War I broke out. Fritz was not happy that the US was staying on the sidelines. He wanted the US to join with Germany and fight against England. He could have his own Fox News show. It's the Fritz hour with Fritz. It's supposed to be called the Fritz hippo hour. Cut, cut. Fritz, you've been warned. You will not say hippo on the air anymore. You got it. Action. Hippo to all my friends. Cut, cut, cut. He still had a seething hatred for the British after the Boer Wars because they killed his family and whatnot. Yeah. In Brazil, Fritz went to the German consulate and offered to be a spy and saboteur. From that day on. Wasn't he just making a movie? Well now it's off because World War I started. He's insane. From that day on, he lived a life of aliases. He was known as Frederick Baron, Colonel Besen, F. Krabs, Colonel Marquis de Kintz, Fred Beckins, J.K. Farn, Behold Zombo, Von Gotard, Vam Dam, Fritters, Worthy, and Jim. Dave. Dave. Yes. I got to have it one more time because here's what just happened. I was like, in my head I was like, well you're not going to get one funnier than F. Krabs. And I thought at the end of that run I'd just mention F. Krabs. But then you hit like two or three at the end that are just record breakers. Frederick Baron. Fritters. I'm excited to hear you say Fritters again. Colin Besen. Colin. F. Krabs. F. Krabs. Colonel Marquis de Kintz. Fred Beckins. J.K. Farn. J.K. Farn. Behold Zombo. Behold. Wait. Okay. Behold Zombo. That sounds like what you would hear in like a freak show. Hey what's your- Behold Zombo. Hey what's your name again? Behold Zombo. King Ducky. Von Guttard. Von Guttard. Really? Yeah. It's a little close. It's close. Vam Dam. That one was clearly on the spur of the moment. What's your name? Vam Dam. Vam Dam. Fritters. Just like. Just Fritters. Did he just like wear like a beanie and no shirt and just tie and walk around town. People are like oh don't mind him he's just Fritters. I can't have been a butler. Yeah he definitely had a unicycle. Worthy. Just Worthy. And Jim. I gotta say I'm excited to do some stuff with Fritters in the future. He spent time on the docks in South America in disguise. Who did Fritters? Or Jim. Or F. Krabs. Wearing thick glasses and hunched over his name was Frederick Frederick. What? Wow. So. He's not even trying. Yeah that just seems like a typo. He's like an SCTV character. Hello I'm Frederick Frederick. He would hang out in bars and offer English sailors money to bring rare orchid bulbs back to England for his friends. But these weren't bulbs the packages were explosives. Fritz claims to have sunk 22 ships and started a hundred dock fires. Wow. But according to Fred what Fritz was really up to was disrupting shipments of manganese. I think he was up to building an army of the greatest names of all time. So. Fred knew about manganese. Fred had also been pushing the hippo meat idea after the congressional hearing. In March 1911 he went to Washington and met with Broussard again. Broussard would reintroduce the bill in the spring. But in the meantime Fred was to go on an exploratory trip to Africa to scout other species that would be good for importation and eating. But it's like nobody said yes to any of their shit yet. The scouting time is over. It's time to shoot. The American public was becoming less enthusiastic about the idea of bringing hippos to America and putting them in rivers. The hippo meat idea was waning. During this time Fred had also started working for companies who had copper mines in Mexico. He never made it to Africa because the Mexican Revolution broke out and he went down to Mexico to watch over the company's investments. And at one point he was commanding a group of 500 armed men. He still hadn't given up on the idea of hippos though. He continued to work on the plan. He found a German circus master who agreed to ship the hippos. At the same time Broussard kept pushing the bill from one congressional session to the next until it was 1918 and then Broussard died. Eventually the Department of Agriculture weighed in and said importing hippos was a terrible idea. That's interesting. Instead the department recommended turning useless marshes in Louisiana into grassy pastures for cows. People like to eat cows and they don't want to eat hippos. And cows are here. Honey I have been barbecuing this hippo for nine days and it's still not ready. Turn it over. A lot of this meat is going bad. It's very chewy. It's black on the outside. And it doesn't, I'll tell you what it doesn't taste like is Lake Cow Bacon. It does not taste like Lake Cow Bacon at all. OK. It tastes like toilet chicken. So this is how America overcame the meat question. They developed ways to raise more animals in more places. When World War One broke out, Fritz also wanted the U.S. to get into the action. I'm sorry. Fred also wanted the U.S. to get into the action just like Fritz did. But he wanted the U.S. to fight against Germany. Interesting. He became part of the preparedness movement. They believed the U.S. entry into the war was inevitable and were putting pressure on President Wilson to enter the war. In 1916, Fred was the grand marshal of a preparedness parade in San Francisco when a suitcase bomb went off. Ten people were killed. Jesus. Teddy Roosevelt was putting together a group of men to go into battle on his own if Wilson did not enter the war. Wow. What? I'm going to read that again. Teddy Roosevelt was putting together a group of men to go into battle on his own if Wilson didn't enter the war. What a dick. Greatest president ever. Adam is fucking mine. Just wanting to kill stuff everywhere. Didn't matter where. If you're not going to war, Teddy's going to war. I started my own army. Teddy. Teddy, you're not president anymore. Doesn't matter. You don't need to be president to make an army, bully. Let's go, boys. Match your hippos. With just spears on the backs of hippos like monkeys on dogs. Just ready to go. They just strap him on there. All right. Your legs are taped. You're secure. I guess we're going into the water. Fred joined Teddy's group. We're really going low. Fred joined Teddy's group. He was 55 years old and he always wanted to see battle. Sure. But the chance to actually fight instead of being a scout had never come. And now he thought it could happen. Sure. But unfortunately his services were needed elsewhere. Manganese was in short supply, partially due to fritz down their blowing up ships. Manganese is a mineral that is used to make steel. The war caused shipments to be cut off from the usual suppliers, so new sources were needed. The US looked to South America, but also hoped to find its supply in the US. Fred got a few prospectors together he knew from his 20s and they went out into the desert to look for Manganese. The scout is back, baby. There's a simple solution on how to deal with that. Import hippos. I totally agree. Yeah, that'll solve it. No problem. It was a successful operation. They found Manganese in several different locations. Now years later, Fred and fritz were once again on the opposite sides of a war thwarting each other. In February 1916, fritz packed the film from his film project that he had bailed on into a trunk and put it aboard the SS Tennyson. Whatever was in that box exploded as the ship was in the ocean. Three sailors died. A co-conspirator was caught and he quickly gave up fritz. Fritz was now wanted. And why is he doing that? But he's just doing that because he is so upset about us. No, he hates the British. Oh, okay. So the British are fighting the Germans. So he's joined up with the Germans. He's doing his own. Yeah, he's a boar. He's fighting his own war, another boar war. Fritz was now wanted for murder by the British. In 1917, fritz found his way to Washington, DC. But of course, they're looking for fritz when the guy's name is fritters. You ain't going to find fritters. You talking about fritters, crab cakes? Fritters, crab cakes. The guy rides the unicycle and plays the harmonica. Fritters, crab cakes. Where's the hippo head? Where's the hippo head? Rides the unicycle, sells crab cakes. Just yells no stop till hippo. That guy. Serious drug problem. So in 1917, fritz went back to Washington, DC. Instead of using one of his many aliases, he used his own name. That was a really dumb movie. It had 900 names. He was looking for work and reached out to Frederick. Frederick would have been better. He was looking for work and reached out to Broussard, who had no idea what fritz had been up to. Broussard tried to get him a low level clerk job, but it didn't pan out. With no luck in Washington, he headed to New York and crashed at a friend's house. He then tried to get his let's eat African animals thing going again. He wanted to go on a speaking tour, but no one cared. Yeah, stop. There was a war on and people just wanted to hear about war heroes. So Fritz became Captain Claude Stouten, an impressive soldier who had perhaps seen more of the war than any man at present before the public. This poor fake guy had been stabbed three times during his fake fighting, gassed four times and struck once with a hook. That's quite a fake resume. The fake son of a bitch show was a hit. He was a hit on the speech circuit. He started getting invited to important parties. He would show up in uniform and give speeches asking people to donate to the Red Cross and buy Liberty bonds. The dude who had been a terrorist just a couple of years before trying to stop allied forces was now raising money for the allied forces. Yes, as a war hero. In the end, all Fritz cared about was Fritz being famous. On December 8th, 1917, Fritz was arrested for insurance fraud in New York City. He had filed the claim for the film that was lost on the Tennyson. Oh boy. The film. That's balls. That's filled with explosives and blown a ship up. That's like the guy, you know, when the Oklahoma City guy blew up, blew up the, the building. Yeah. The other guy. Oh, the other dude. Oh no, no. The guy who, the guy who, the first guy who tried to blow up the World Trade Center when it didn't go down. So the first guy tried to blow up the World Trade Center. They blew it up and then he went back and he went back and said the van he had rented was in an accident in the World Trade Center and tried to get the money back. And it was the van he used to blow up the World Trade Center. Jesus, dude. How do you get that petty over terrorist shit? You're like, oh, so I need that deposit. I gotta get my, I gotta get that 80 bucks back. I'm going to be honest, dude, I had a full tank just so you guys know. So like none of that bullshit. You know what I mean? I know you guys charge an extreme amount. So he filed this claim. He apparently tried another insurance scheme as well. He had agreed to make movies for an Argentine board of education. They paid him $24,000 for film, which he bought and then he put it in a Brooklyn warehouse and then he blew up the warehouse. So what is with the film part of this plan? I just think he thinks film was very expensive. Just like his calling card. And so he knows he can get money for film. But then every time he gets it, but he would still need to make the fucking movie. Now the British wanted him for murder. So Fritz started acting crazy. Oh, he started that crazy. So he's arrested. The judge had a lunacy commission assess him to see if he was really nuts. That's what it was called. Lunacy commission. That's going to be a great, I would love to just have footage of some of the lunacy council. It's my favorite Donald Duck cartoon. The lunacy council. The lunacy commission. The lunacy commission. The lunacy commission sent him to a mental hospital. We're here to find out if you're ape shit. So we're going to ask you some questions and show you some things and see how crazy you shit is. Okay, here's the first question. Yes. So he sent him to a mental hospital. They just pour a glass of milk and put it before him and then pour it down their pants. And they're like, how does that make you feel? At home? Very good. I think he might be lunatic. Right. So he sent him to a mental hospital. He was there with a man who constantly. Not a sent a mental hospital. He was sent to a mental hospital. Correct. Right. Okay. He was there with a man who was constantly whistling because he said he was a train. And another guy who thought he was Napoleon's tomb. Wow. That is some roomies. That is when you're like Napoleon, the tomb. So wait, you're Napoleon? I'm not an idiot. I know I'm not Napoleon. I'm where he's buried. I'm sorry. That's 1245. That's mine. I got to get on that. That's my train. I got to get out of here. You got room from a tomb on there. Where are we going? No stop till hippo. I'm getting on too. I'm quitting the hospital. Fritz's wife showed up and divorced him. She said it was obvious he had gone German. You've gone German. Fritz then collapsed in court saying he was paralyzed from the waist down. I can't do it. I can't. I just I lost the use of my legs just now. Strangely right in court. I can't walk anymore. When doctors jabbed him with pins, he did not react. Let me know when you guys are starting. Oh, you have? Well, I can't feel it. My story checks out. He was sent to Bellevue Hospital where he slowly got skinnier and skinnier. He would just sit all day and watch the birds from a window. Then one day, should be hippos. He escaped. Okay. It turns out he had gotten his hands on a hacksaw and he wasn't watching birds at the window, but he was sawing the bars. That's different. He had faked being paralyzed for seven months, but now the Black Panther was on the news. Who bought the leg shift? I don't know. He took off to Mexico and Europe, but then of course, he made his way back to New York where he was famous because he can be famous there. No, Fritters, no. He appeared for a short time as a vaudeville critic named Major Fred Craven, but then vanished again. The FBI continued to search for him, mainly in Manhattan. But they were also like, maybe we don't want to catch this guy. He directs some great shows when he's not blowing up ships. Finally he was arrested again. Fritz was charged with homicide and escape, but the statute of limitations had expired on the war crimes charge, so Britain passed on extradition. The judge then dropped the escape charge and he was free again. In the spring of 1934, Fritz became an intelligence officer for the Order of 76, an American pro-Nazi organization. Oh gosh. The FBI watched him closely. Fritz knew he was being watched and at one point stopped an FBI agent tailing him and said, stop following me. On June 28th, 1941- Some good detective work. On June 28th, 1941, the FBI set up a sting with a double agent. The FBI was in one room while the double agent was in another. Fritz entered and immediately began searching the room asking, where are the mics? Where are the mics? When he thought he was safe, he pulled up his pants leg and pulled out files. There was a sketch and photo of the M1 Garand semi-automatic rifle, a drawing of a new light tank design, a photo of a US Navy mosquito boat, a photo of a grenade launcher, and reports on US tanks he had observed at bases around the country. He was arrested. Then 33 spies in Fritz's group were arrested. He was charged with sending information to the Third Reich and plotting to start fires in American factories. The evidence was damning. The Black Panther had stamped each letter with a black attacking cat. Oh God. You know what I got to get on these secret espionage files? My own stamp. You spent so much time coming up with fake names. Also, you know what? I asked for the stamp of the cat, but underneath I wanted from Fritz and up top I wanted No Stop Till Hippo. That was a lot of money. I just got the cat. I just got the cat for now. The case ended up being the largest espionage case in US history. Fritz Deukens was sentenced to 20 years in Leavenworth Prison. Fred did not enjoy hearing about the end of his old nemesis. His doom fills me with sadness, he said. Fred Burnham remained in California and was wealthy at this point. He and his son had struck oil on some land they owned. Fred was also a lifelong member of the National Council of Boy Scouts of America. The Boy Scouts are actually modeled after Fred. Really? The Neckerchiefs aside from the molestation scandals. Right. He did not do that, allegedly. Right. The handkerchiefs they wore are based on the one Fred always wore in the desert to keep his neck from being sunburned. At Fred's request, the Boy Scouts created merit badges so they would be able to master many skills. Dear Cake, the lowest selling badge. Did you get the Hippo badge? No, no Fred, please. Please. It's a picture of a Hippo in front of an American school eating grass. Right. Yup. No, I'm not getting that one. It's hard to get. Mmhmm. Yeah, because there's no Hippos here. Get them here! That's what I've been talking about! Alrighty, this took a turn. Fred still kept a picture of Fritz on his wall, framed in his military uniform. In his desk, he still had a letter from the Back Panther. Quote, to my friendly enemy, the second greatest scout in the world. Sorry, the greatest scout in the world. Wow. Whose eyes were the vision of empire. I crave the honor of killing him, but feeling that, I extend my heartiest admiration. Wow, what? That's a great rivalry. Fred died on September 1st, 1947 in Santa Barbara, California. He was 86 years old. Fred Dukance was released in 1954 due to failing health after serving 14 years in prison. He died May 1956 in a state hospital in New York City. And we've all been eating Hippo ever since. Ever since. Jesus Christ. That's why Wendy's has the Hippo Burger. Oh, God. What we would be doing at fast food places right now? Uh, can I get a... I just got an ear. Can I get some curly hips? Um, I'll also take a... Hip burger? Can I get a Hippo biscuit? And then I'll take some regular fries and a Hippo pie. Yeah, I'll shake. Thank you. Vanilla. And oh, also some giraffe sticks. Thank you. What we would have done to that Hippo. It's almost... that's actually the most excited I've been about this Hippo prospect. Is what we would do? If it was here now, what would it be? So Hippo crisps. Hippo crisps. It would just be the grossest. Hippo, you stop at the grocery store, get some Hippo jerky. Oh, God. Step into a slim hip. Slim hip. Deep fried hip flakes. You want some hip chips? Oh, man. The song No Stop Till Hippo is a huge hit. No stop till Hippo. No stop till Hippo. Do do do. Wow. Jesus. Well, there you go. How is there still so much insane shit? I don't know. We're a fucking insane country. Are we ever going to run out? I don't think so. Do you really not? I have a massive, massive list. It's insane how long my list is. And it's not like this in Australia at all. Australia is so much more normal. Yeah. Well, we... I mean, there's some stories, but Jesus Christ, there's nothing you can do. Well, look at us now. Look at what our debates are. They're dynamite. Dynamite. And if we ever run out, then we'll just move over to Scotland. Yeah. Well, they'll have Hippo. All righty. So by the way, if you are in Edinburgh, there are some really funny comedians there. I highly recommend Ben Russell's show, The Tokyo Hotel. Go see Nick Cody. Go see Ronnie Chang. Those guys are really, really, really fucking funny. I can't recommend them enough. Like I said, I'll be headlining here at the improv. The 15th, Gareth will be on the show. Dwayne Perkins, Morgan Murphy, and others. And then go to DaveAnthonyComedy.com. There you'll find all the links to buy tickets to the shows in Australia. You should hurry up. They're selling pretty good. Get on that shit. Come on. Let's go. Adelaide, girl, what you doing? Adelaide, it could be so nice. Hi everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollar Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv, August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there. Or join me the next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas. If that doesn't work for you, join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club, August 27th. Go to GarethReynolds.com to get tickets for all of our shows.