 You're listening to The Dial Up. This is a bi-weekly podcast. I read a story and I'm a friend, Gareth Reynolds. Who has no idea what the topic is about. It's from American history. The bi-weekly thing is now, it's just- It's a thing. It's like, it's loaded, even if- Everybody. Everybody sent me their opinion. Everybody. I got a lot of it too, and it's just fine, right? Yeah, it's not a big deal. Who is this person who kicked up all the dust? I don't know, wish I could go back and find out, but I'm sure they're hanging their head in shame. Shame. Yeah. And if they're doing it twice a week, they're hanging it in shame bi-weekly. Or semi-weekly. Yeah. Or twice a week. Or twice a week. Bi-weekly's better though, come on. Alright, I'm in. God, you wanna look good, dude? I'll do one bump. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not gonna become the Tickling Plot, guys. Okay. This is our Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. Is he done, my friend? No. No. 1899! Philip Peters and his new bride were just getting started in life. Okay. They bought a new small home in a nice neighborhood on the north side of Denver. Philip had just begun working at a railroad office. Of course, there was a mandolin club. I'm sorry? I said of course there was a mandolin club. A club of mandolin lovers and players? People who like playing the mandolin. Okay. It's Denver. The 1899. Listen, I mean that's what happens. Okay. That doesn't, to me that doesn't scream mandolin era, but okay. Well, you didn't live back then. No, I didn't. One day inside the home, several couples played their mandolins while waiting for a 17 year old boy to show up. The boy, Theodore, was very good at playing and he gave them tips on strumming the mando. I'm assuming that you're making that. I did call it strumming the mando. Strumming the mando? They'd be like, get out of the club. You bet. Come on, I just came here to strum some mandos. That's fine. I'll go home and strum the mando. Easy. Sir, you're talking, no. Did I wink? I think I did. Hey, I'm here to strum the mando. What? Wrong party, sir. Ah, you guys should be more clear. I have a bunch of friends showing up. They're also going to be strumming the mando. Many of you ladies want to strum the mando. There it is. All right. It's easy to play. Man-do. Easy to play. The boy looked through the curtains of the home. He was holding his mandolin and coughing. He wasn't well. He was skinny and sickly looking. He had long, slender fingers and feverish eyes. Sounds like Nosferatu. Doctor, he is. That's what it's going to have. That's where it goes to. This is the, oh, that's nice to know the origin. Doctors in many different cities had told him he probably wouldn't live to see 18. He had a heart condition. He rang the doorbell and was invited in. The teen became friends with the Peters and was a frequent guest at their home that fall. There were many nights in autumn of 1899 when the ailing youth had dinner with Philip and his wife. Theodore had dropped out of high school, but his mother wouldn't let him get a job, which he didn't think mattered because he was going to die soon. Sounds like a pretty positive life. Yeah. You know? He hadn't had- What does it matter? I'll be dead anyway. Who cares? Just my mandolin and my dead body. Just have long fingers and be in the ground. I'm going to have fingers stick out. Now we are written. I mean, I think I started the snowball effect of us shitting on a dude who's like, 18's when I die. I'm a sad time boy. Oh, I only get an eighth of real life. Oh, where? Eighth. I like how he broke it down into fractions. I bet it's off, too, if it's math. He was born on a farm near a- Oh, God, it's gone. He was born on a farm- In Wisconsin. And he went to high school there. His father died when he was just a baby. He had moved to Denver in 1910. He wanted to play sports, but because of his bad heart, that was not possible. He loathed people- Staying alive is the sport he's playing. So he's pretty weird looking. Yeah, he doesn't sound easy on the eyes. So he loathed people staring at him and laughing at him, as often happened. Why? What about that did he not respond to? I don't know. Look at the praying mantis. Hey, long fingers. The praying mantis. Maybe it's easy to strum because you have giant long fingers. Did you ever think about just putting some strings in between your really long, weird fingers and playing those, you fucking freak? His dream was to just live by himself where he couldn't hear others mocking him. Jeez, that's so sad. That's like the hunchback's dream. Yeah, it's terrible. The Peters lost touch- My only friend are the bells. No one understands me like the bells. It's gonna come so close to that. Peter lost touch with young Theodore, but several years later, the Peters lost touch. But some years later, Philip Peters was leaving the railroad office when he brushed against a scruffy, skinny man. It was Theodore. He was still alive. They spoke. Theodore said his mother had lost all their money to some con man. They had talked her into selling- I can get your boy real fingers. Really? Yeah. You just give me 200 upfront and then 200 when I get him the new normal fingers. I can't do nothing about the skin of the face though. I actually know a face guy. Give me that money and I'll talk to him. All the money you sell your house will get new fingers. I'm suggesting we reupholster your boy. Lady, you fell for the old house for fingers, Swindle? I don't want to talk about it. He was so charming. That's better answers. People got fingers. Anyway, want to buy a bridge? They talked her into selling the family home and investing it all in a mine in Denver. Oh boy. Selfish. That was the last time she saw the men. Okay. Good. So, okay. I'm just assuming it's going really well. Philip invited Theodore over for dinner just like old times, but Theodore declined. He said he was now working in advertising in downtown Denver. He lived with and took care of his mother. They parted ways again. Then in the spring of 1912, Philip Peters bumped into Theodore again. This time things had changed quite a bit. Okay. Theodore's mother had passed away. He now had no idea what he was going to do. He was just getting by. He didn't tell Philip his dark secrets like the time he tried to join the army but was laughed at. That's a bad recruiter. Same thing happened at Gilmer Pile. Did it? Yeah. I don't know. He was just like, hey, I would like to join the army. Get the fuck out of here. Oh my God. Let me get my supervisor. Don't move. Okay, Captain Kegers. Okay. So, sorry. Tell us what you want again. Hey, do we have room for a praying mantis in the army? Tell us what you want. I would like to join the army. Oh my God. Fuck, look at him. Look at him, Sarge. Jesus. Get the fuck out. Oh boy. Seriously, get out. You're hard to look at. But my God. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're hard to look at, but my God. Hilarious. Do you even use a fork or do you just poke him with the- Of course he doesn't use a fork. We can put marshmallows on this kid's hand and make s'mores. All we need is a fire. Fucking thing. They're like talons. He also did not tell Philip that his business had collapsed or that he had lived for a while as a hobo, traveling and continued to cough everywhere he went. He said for a while- He's kind of hobo's a coffin hobo. Yep. Cofobo. Cofobo. He lived for a while under a bridge in California and now is back in Denver staying in a flop house. The once young mandolin player now just drifted around from state to state. He'd once tried to work as a salesman in New York but couldn't do it. He gave up. Of course not. The only thing he could sell would be gloves. Long ones. Yeah. Like really, yeah. So now he's in Denver, again, did not accept the invitation to dinner and they went their separate ways. Okay. Things weren't going great for Philip either. His wife had broken her hip two weeks before and she was still in the hospital. A concerned neighbor came by to see how he was doing when he didn't show up for dinner that night. She'd been feeding Philip every night since his wife went into the hospital. She knocked on the door but no one answered. She rang the bell. The house was dark. Was it night? Yep. Okay. I think we're a little dramatic on that one. It's light out except in the house it's dark. Right. So the lights were off. It's in a wormhole. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, it isn't. There's a darkness in the home that cannot be explained by physics. Can be absolutely explained by everything. Being concerned the neighbor went and gathered up a large group of neighbors. So she gets everyone up. She gets everyone. There's something wrong with Philip. Well, I went over there and there was no one there. Get all the neighbors. Everybody come. Bring fiery torches. They came back to Philip's house and tried to get in to make sure Philip was okay. They tried every door and window but they were all locked. That's strange. There were screens on all the windows. That's even stranger. Then a young girl found a screen loose and managed to pry a window open. She climbed inside. Everyone was outside when they heard her terrified scream. Philip Peters was dead. The 73 year old retired railroad auditor had been murdered in his own home where he'd lived for close to 50 years. This was not the type of neighborhood where murder occurred. Everyone was shocked. The police were called. When they arrived they found us. This has Nosferatu written all over it. Wormy fingers. Wait, are these? Looks like some fingers shed here. So are these finger sheddings? We got the fingerprints and they're huge. We think we're looking for some kind of big ostrich. Is that what you came up with for long fingers? Well I'm thinking like an ostrich. Talons. What about like a sloth? I mean I think I'm thinking claw. They have claws. What are you critiquing my fucking bits? I'm a ostrich. Okay fine. Sloth. Do you want to go back? How do you want to handle this? This is new. I just disagree with the biology segment. I was struggling. You heard me. There was a stammer in there. I didn't have it on deck. I was halfway through thinking about it. I had nothing and I said ostrich. Maybe we won't go to Australia. You know, fuck you. Alright. Fucking finger critiques. So the police. You're a bitch. Come and they find his body downstairs in a bedroom. He was very bloody, half dressed and barefoot. There were more than a dozen wounds to his head. Philip had been beaten and beaten. It was quick and police believed he never saw it coming. It wasn't a robbery. His watch was found as was money on his dresser. There was no motive. Just a dead man in all his possessions and there was no sign of a break in. Oh boy. The front door was locked with a key still in. So I mean, what he just really wanted to make it obvious. And it was secured with a chain. Okay. So it could only have been done from the inside. The back door was also locked. Okay. Everything's locked. There's no way out. Yeah. There was a damp towel in the kitchen covered in blood stains. They also located two cast iron shakers. One was dusty and dirty while the other had just been clean. Police concluded the killer was a large man and crazy. There were no clues. The killer just vanished into thin air. On January, much like Nosferatu. Yeah. In January, 1942, it was very cold as it often is in Denver. Some children were rushing by the home when they said they saw a bright light inside. At this point, the house was empty. There should not have been a light shining inside. Then another neighbor said she saw a ghost inside one of the windows. The neighbors began to talk and decided the house was haunted. Okay. It took a long time to recover from her broken hip, but she had done it. Mrs. Peters was ready to leave the hospital and decided she wanted to go to the home she shared with her husband, Philip, even though he had been killed there. What this? Oh my God. Did this dude kill him just to fucking live there? But it had been her home for 50 years and that's where she felt she belonged. Then one night something scared her and she fell down again. Oh gosh. She fractured her thigh again, but she had had it with hospitals and refused to go. So a nurse came to stay with her. Now this nurse was not as old as Ms. Peters and she was unfamiliar with the house. She heard things. Noises inside the walls and rattling. Oh fuck me. Dave, what's this dude? What? Fucking is he living in the walls like a goddamn rat? I don't know what. Or what some would call a sloth. If I'm off on my animal accuracy. Is he living inside the walls like an ostrich? Is he inside the walls like a big cat? Is he in there like some kind of giant African bird? You know they're saying his fingerprints were much like that of a bird. Excuse me? Yeah? All right, what were you guys talking about? Pardon? That? He laying some big old eggs. Hey man, his fingers are so long I bet his babies come out of eggs. You're listening to the riff hour. You're listening to bad riffs. Someone came out to check on things and found nothing, but the nurse wasn't buying it. Next she said she saw a ghost on the back stairs. It chattered its teeth at her. She immediately quit and left. Yeah, right call. He quit. Then a neighbor stepped in and took care of Miss Peters, but the neighbor was not familiar with the home either and now she was hearing things. Several days later. Say why did the last nurse quit? Oh well she just heard someone living in the walls and saw a ghost rattle its teeth. She saw a chattering teeth ghost? She saw what some are calling a chattering ostrich. Some, not many, but a few. Just one actually. One weirdo. He's not good at this. He's not a good labeler. Do you think he meant sloths? I just don't think he knows what sloths are. That's the only thing I can think. But he's really sticking to it. Several days later the neighbor heard a strange noise and ran into the kitchen. She did not turn on the lights and there she saw a ghost standing at the foot of the stairs. Investigators came. She described it as filthy and wraith like. What's wraith like? Who? A wraith. Well there's wraiths in. Wait, is that like what a person with a lisp calls a marathon? It's like a, it's like a, well it's like it is a spirit. I mean it's like a ghost. It's like another day for ghosts but I think it's like a creepier kind. Okay, so a creepy ghost. Creepy ghost. Okay, gotcha. CG. Alrighty. Um, so it vanished when she screamed. Relatives insisted Ms. Peters needed to get out of the house so she went to live with her son in western Colorado. The house was now vacant. Okay, I'm sure the ghost is into that. Meanwhile police said they would keep an eye on the house. In July 1942, two police officers were doing just that. They were sitting across the street watching the home. The sun was going down and a mailman was walking down the street delivering mail. Yep, yep, yes, that's it. Both police looked at the mailman when one out of the corner of his eye saw a ghost face suddenly appear between the curtains of the house. Ghost face. I'm ghost face killer. And he started rapping. The policeman hit his partner who looked up and also saw the horrible white face. He said he got a chill on his neck and in his stomach. I don't know what a chill is in your stomach. I don't think that's right. It's like when you eat a bunch of ice cream. I feel like that one got lost in a game of telephone. He got a chilly stomach. Hey, you got chilly stomach from seeing that ghost. I can't tell you how cold it is in my tummy. The ghost was also watching the mailman. The two cops then jumped out of their car and dashed across the street. One blew his whistle to call for assistance as he ran. Cops should have whistles. Cops should have whistles again. Alright. A fucking whistle. Just seeing him whistle. The ghost that had peeked out from between the curtains was now gone. One caught hit the door with his shoulder and broke it down. They looked around. The place was packed up. The furniture is covered in sheets. Old magazines lay on the table. On the piano there's a picture from long ago. It was Theodore looking sick and frail as usual in a turtleneck sweater holding a mandolin. And then he vanished in the photo. And then the photo said boo. And then the piano started being played from long weird fingers. Much like a dead ostrich claw. Some would say, one said. Well one, bang, bang, bang. Like it didn't have fingers. It was like an ostrich. The police began to search the home. They started on the lower level. The rooms smelled like an animal. I know which kind. More cops arrived responding to the whistle. Two of them dashed us. Responding to the whistle. If you hear a whistle. We heard a whistle. You guys hear where the whistle came from? No, this is a soccer game. Also the worst thing, if someone whistles, I don't know where the fuck that's coming from. And I mean that basically says that like you need a license to have a whistle? Yeah, well I mean I'm sure there's a special whistle they do. They had a special whistle. In a soccer game they just go tweet but a cop on his plate, tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet. But what if there's like a fight in the soccer game? You know all the cops will show up. Well then everyone blows their whistle. It's fine. I think we're saying different things. So two of the cops ran upstairs and as they did they saw a closet door swing shut. One of the policemen opened the closet door and when he did he saw two bare feet kicking away as a ragged pair of pants tried to disappear into the attic. The ghost is getting naked. Ghost feet. The ghost is trying to show us his dick. The academy never prepared me for ghost feet. Boy I don't know what kind of whistle code you blow on this one but we got a bottomless ghost. Scooby Doo! We got a ghost who looks like an ostrich and is dressed like Porky Pig. Uh, yeah that's what came through on the whistle. I don't know if I'm reading this whistle code right sir but it sounds like we got an ostrich, porky pig dressed ghost. Yeah that's what it sounded like to me. So the cop grabbed onto the ragged old pants but they just ripped apart in his hands. He then grabbed one of the feet. It was between him and the ghost because the closet was so small that the other policemen couldn't get in. Hey what's, how's it going in there? Ah I'm having a ghost fight! Oh shit! Oh these are some stinky feets. He yanked and yanked. The ghost screamed in pain and then went limp as it was pulled out of the attic. The police took it down, it had fainted from the struggle. Pussy ghost! A few minutes later they had taken the ghost down from the attic and placed it on the floor. It was unconscious. It was frightfully skinny. It's not a good ghost. Clothes were in tatters, hair was tangled like a wild animal and it was remarkably filthy. The police captain came, took a look at it and ordered them to get a doctor and an ambulance. It was a man, this ghostly thing and it was barely alive. Give me his name. It looked like it had been starving. It weighed just 75 pounds. Oh Jesus! No wonder it fainted. The police officer tried to get through the hole into the attic but he was too large. It was said to be three times the size of a cigar box. What? Apparently no one measured it. They just said cigar boxes. Can you get a fourth cigar box in there? No! No way! Alright so that's a three cigar box. Alright cool. We got a three cigar box here up here. Now let's go see how big a football field is. The officer did manage to poke his head through and look in the attic which was just a few sizes larger than a coffin. So they don't know how to measure anything. No, no, no, no. It was, no, we got it pretty clear. It was less than four cigar boxes and it was less than the size of a small coffin. No bigger than a coffin. It was a little bit bigger than a coffin. So it was bigger than a coffin and it was three cigar boxes. So I guess what we're learning is that cigar boxes used to be fucking huge. Hey Saj, can I ask you a question? It better be about cigar boxes. Yeah, can we stop using rulers and what nots? Well, uh, no, no, we want to be accurate. The world is on the cigar box standard. Who are we to go and overturn such a thing? Listen, like I told you, you're nine cigar boxes tall and my car is 55 cigar boxes. Okay. You can get 45 cigar boxes in a coffins. All right. So a coffin is equal to 45, two coffins, 90 and so forth. All right. And then we keep going. Now, on the more important stuff. Okay. So up in the attic, uh, you know, the earth is over 2 billion cigar boxes. True. It's true. You see that moon? That's over 900 billion cigar boxes away. You can see it with a telescope if you're lucky. Makes you think, huh? Here we are. Yeah, but I like to measure by coffins, but I get what you're saying. Listen, I'm under the coffin standard too. I had this guy at the fire who was talking about rulers. Fuck that guy. What the fuck's a ruler? What is this Australia? No, I guess apparently, uh, nine rulers is a cigar box. That's why it won't work. That conversion. Who the fuck are these animals? I don't know. Where do they come from? It's the whole metric movement. Jesus Christ, this is America. It's disgusting. Anyway, you got any cigars? Yeah, I got a cigar box the size of a cigar box with cigars in it. Holy shit. Actually, don't be blown away. It's pretty standard. Okay. Okay, so upstairs in the attic, there was a light bulb hanging from a wire and a horrific stench of animal. There was a bed made from an ironing board. Magazines in shreds were in the bedding and there were a shitload of spider webs. Oh God. Living Lodge. Oh God. The man regained consciousness and was taken to the police station. He gave, they gave him food and he told them his story. His name was Theodore. He had been in the neighborhood in 1945 and 1941 when he was living in flop houses and trying to figure out what to do. He went to the home of his old friends and knocked on the door, but no one was home. He then discovered the door was unlocked. So he went in and stole some food. He was invited to dinner. What else to do? The people were really nice to you. Like, why did he steal food? They asked him to come eat. The door was open. Okay, cool. Hey, only people that have been nice to me. Fuck you. Yeah. Well, the door's open. I can kill him. He then went upstairs to look for valuables to steal. When he looked in the closet, he found the hole that led to the attic. Oh God. Physically, he was in terrible shape. His lungs were making it difficult for him to get around and he was at the end of his rope. Yeah, time to go live in a stinky hole with spiders. He was looking at facing another cold winter out in the elements and he just couldn't do it. He needed a place to stay. So he climbed in the hole and went to sleep. I mean, it's low standards, I guess. The attic was about four feet wide at the bottom and tapered to a point about three feet high or more than a coffin. So about 12 square cigar boxes? Yeah, about 12, yeah, about 12 CG. Okay, cool, cool. He didn't know how long he was going to stay. Whenever he heard Philip in the home, he would remain still. Jesus. Then as the days went by, he became more daring and he started shadowing Philip from room to room in the walls. Jesus. It was like a game to him. He felt like the first time he'd ever had anyone at his mercy. I mean, I think you're at his mercy a little bit too. Crazy. You're at the mercy of walls. Crazy, low self-esteem. Yeah. Ghost person. Yeah, when you're like, finally a relationship. It's like we're dating. Yeah. Then one day over a month later, Theodore was getting some food out of the fridge when Philip walked in. He thought Philip was out of the house, but he had just taken a nap. Philip turned around for help and without thinking, Theodore grabbed the iron stove shaker and hit him and hit him and hit him and hit him until Philip was dead. Then he washed the shaker. You got a little strange decision making. I mean, he was going to run away. Not good on his feet. Yep. I mean, you know, he was running away. Wait, try that. I know you. Hey, I'm hungry. Hey, I'm hungry and you've been nice to me. Totally hungry. Hey. Sleeping upstairs. He washed off the shaker and dried it with a towel. Then he went back into his attic. After the police found the body- Why back to the attic? I mean, I guess because of the cops. Where's he going to go? Well, you do- That's his home. Yeah. Well, you do have a whole home now. You've murdered someone. Right. After the police found the body, one of them tried to open a trap door to the attic, but Theodore sat on it so he couldn't get it open. A classic foiled. Yeah. I don't know. It moves a little if I push hard. Let's get out of here. Come on. Whistle it in. So he stayed. And then Miss Peters and her nurse came. Oh, he was like, oh, for fuck's sake. Oh, come on. I had this shit down. Jesus. And so he remained. Then summer came and it was terrible and hot in the walls and the attic, but it was worth it to have somewhere to stay. He had no idea why he stayed in the crawl spaces for so long. Maybe it was because it was his own world in there and there was no one to mock him or laugh at him. Sometimes he'd go down and watch the mailman. I mean, this is a life. Oh shit. It's 2 30. I got to move. Move. He's living. I'm going to move. So the highlight of my day. So this this. So the the the lady and the nurse have moved out. So there's no food in here. So he's just like fucking starving and yeah. In a hole in a hole. So like Saddam Hussein, when he saw strangers on the street, he felt anger and would go back into his attic. That's interesting. He's motherfucking goddamn son walking around without people laughing at their hands. So he was arrested and charged for the murder. The press dubbed Theodore the Spider-Man of Denver after police detective Fred Sarnow said quote, a man would have to be a spider to stand it long up there. Also because of his wide eyes and long slender fingers and the spider webs in the attic. I mean, is this the origin of Spider-Man? There's no way he didn't need a spider. Oh God. Or a fly. No fucking way. Oh, jeez. He was sentenced to life in prison. Which is a dream. He's been living in a fucking hole with no food. Right. He gets in prison. He's like, holy shit, I'm a king. Look at all these mashed potatoes. Oh, hey, I can pick the lock with my fingers. Hey, cool. He entered the prison on November 18th, 1942 and died at the prison hospital on May 16th, 1967. He is buried in Mount Vale Cemetery in Woodpecker Hill. Hmm. Woodpecker. Sounds like a bird. How about that creep? You mean that creep? Yeah. Yeah. Now there is a movie. That's why you don't play the mandolin. I've always said that. Right? Yeah. Thank you. You're going to get a freak living in your walls and murder your husband. That's how it all starts. There is a guy. Fuck, what was I going to say? There's a guy. I did say that, didn't I? There's a movie in the 70s. Where I lived, we had this 330 movie on Channel 7 on ABC. Okay. It was always a weird. Every day? Yeah. Monday through Friday. Spoiled. It was always some weird, crazy movie. There was one made for TV movie called Bad Ronald. Bad Ronald? Bad Ronald is a story clearly based on this. I have a kid who was weird and a girl was laughing at him and he pushed her over on her bike and he killed her. Okay. Then he went home and his mom was like, well, you have to hide you. He lived in a space in the middle of the house that was behind all the walls. He could go between the walls. The only way to get in and out was his board under the pantry. He'd come in to get food and stuff. Then his mom went to have surgery and she died and a new family moved in. Oh God. He would just watch them and it was like three girls and he was obsessed with them. Dad, Nick Coleman was the dad. He created this fake world called Narnia in there. Like Narnia where he'd paint pictures of the girls. More Turkish delight. It's just like a rat's guts. Then one night he carved little holes so he could see through and then one night he left the light on and fell asleep I think. Then a girl saw the light coming out and he crashed to the wall. But it clearly was based on this. Bad Ronald. Highly recommend it. If you're in that position, you just say surprise and smile and then hope that you could sell yourself out of something. I'm dating myself, but what about Kool-Aid? You yell Kool-Aid. Kool-Aid. Yeah, but you're covered in blood. Same thing. Same thing. All right, so that's the story of the Spider-Man at Denver. Normal. Just another normal story. Completely normal dude. Another normal tale. All right, girls. Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollar Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv. August 6th through the 8th, and I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas. August 19th, join me there. Or join me the next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas. If that doesn't work for you, join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night, I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club, August 27th. Go to GarethReynolds.com. Till then.