 You're listening to The Dolip. This is a bi-weekly American History podcast. Each week I read a story from American History to my friend. Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is about. It's true. It is true. I don't know what we're about to talk about. Me neither. I don't know what we're about to talk about. That's going to really fuck this show up. God, you want to look at a dude? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. They've okayed. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I said done, my friend. No. No. I'm your girl. 1797. Just a year. The Finian Brotherhood movement is an Irish resistance movement that had one goal, an independent democratic Ireland free of British rule. Well, so it worked out. They would get this result by any means necessary. The first Irish uprising was in 1797. Did not go well. No. Then the second would come in 1848. Did not go well. Wait, 1797, 1848, and they couldn't get their shit together in that time? It took 50 off. Jesus. It took 50 off. Got to regroup. I'm starting to think we're not going to fucking win this thing. This isn't working out, is it? Fucking Jesus Christ. Holy shit. How long has it been? 50 fucking years and we still can't fucking win. Oh, shit. I went to the pub. I didn't come out. Fuck. Fuck. We just fucking realized we forgot to fucking try to fight back again. We've been pissed for 50 fucking years. Let's go get them now, boys. The Irish would continue the fight though. In the mid 1800s, the Irish poured into America. Most of the Irish in America were all shaped by the famine. Literally. It's all famine. And that means they were fucking furious with the English. The potato famine hit Ireland from 1846 to 1852. The Irish saw the potato famine as a form of genocide, which is hard to argue with because they actually had enough food to eat during the famine. They were harvesting grain and livestock, but then they were forced to export it all to England, usually under military guard. That's tough. So they're like laying around dying and taking their resources and just shipping them. And they're just taking, they're just bringing pigs through your town to the boat. Like just completely fucked up. I'd love to eat a fucking pig. Oh, shit. Look at that fat pig. We're going to boil my wife's finger tonight for dinner. That pig looks nice and is fucking succulent, Attus. So while one million Irish died, another one million fled to foreign lands. And in the mid 1800s, the US received the largest number of immigrants from Ireland. A lot of those were rebels who have been part of the failed 1848 uprising. So we're bringing some ballers. You're going to get a little bit to that. After the famine in 1860, there were about 1,600,000 Irish born Americans in the US. Most of those lived in New York City, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New England. Then in 1858 in Dublin, a group called the Irish Republican Brotherhood started, created by James Stevens. These were guys who had grown up during the famine or survived it and were not pleased. It's tough when the kids get that's like, it's when the kids grow up pissed. It's yeah, it's not good. Yeah, you're fucked. It's like you can piss off the parents. But if you grow up pissed, yeah, it's over. It's not good. You're looking at it. Yeah, I know. Seriously. And then in America in October 1858, a ceremony in New York City's Tammany Hall marked the birth of a US revolutionary body of young Ireland rebels led by John O. Mahoney. Mahoney. Oh, Mahoney. Oh, it was conceived of by Mahoney and Stevens. It was to be a supportive auxiliary of Stevens Irish Republican Brotherhood in Ireland. Okay. O. Mahoney would organize the American Irish to assist in the next Irish revolt, sending money, arms and provisions to the homeland. He also came up with the name Finians. Now, I'd love to. The Finian Brotherhood is named after pre Christian Gaelic warriors called the Fianna. They lived about 2000 years ago. It was a time when Ireland was independent, strong and had control over its own destiny. Oh, the solid days. Let's go back to when we had our shit together. Those were the four kids. Oh, Christ, this is oh, geez, we're really going back now. Okay. 2000 years ago. Look at the size of that pig. Oh, fuck me. Look at him just walking right there with the soldiers. I could eat him. Getting emotional over here. Oh, me potatoes turned to dust. Oh, no, I've got dusty potatoes. At the same time, many of the Irish in America saw themselves as more Irish than the Irish living in Ireland. That's tough to equate because they were they were living every moment to kick out the British and they were like, we're actually doing something about it. They fucking left left and they were going to kick some ass and come back. What the fuck are you doing? Still, you ain't an Ireland dog. Still doggy in Ireland. As the video leader, Omohony had many powers and was accountable only to Captain Stevens in Ireland. Branches called circles were set up in all major cities. Above the circles was something called the center. Local centers were elected by members of the circle. Very democratic process. Yeah. And that's the senior officer in each state, the state center was appointed by Omohony. So it didn't really. Not really. Right. They were all given military ranks of captain, sergeant, private, etc. and were required to pay an initiation fee of one dollar and weekly dues of 10 cents. There it is. And they had to take an oath. I, Mickey, solemnly pledge my sacred word of honor as a truthful and honest man that I will labor with my earnest zeal for the liberation of Ireland from the York of England and for the establishment of a free and independent government on the Irish soil. That I will implicitly obey the commands of my superior officers at the Fideon Brotherhood. You okay, Mickey? That I will faithfully discharge the duties of my membership as laid down in the constitution and by law thereof that I will do my utmost to promote feelings of love, harmony and kindly forbearance among all Irish men. Mickey, you're goddamn voice. And that I will foster, defend and propagate the aforementioned said Fideon Brotherhood to the unborn of the powers. Mickey! Clovers. Mickey. Did you say clovers at the end? Yeah that's me. Personal sign off. That's me hook. O'Mahoney was good at setting up military organizations. He had already started the 99th New York State Militia and was a Colonel. Sure. Right. But isn't it easy for him to become Colonel? Yeah, if you make up a thing. Yeah, I think if you make up a thing. I'm the president of my bullshit you joined. Can you believe it? What a rise. Meteoric. He worked hard for a year and by November of 1859 thousands of young Irishmen had joined Finian units. There were now 40 Finian military units in different states with names like Corcoran's Irish Legion, the Phoenix Brigade of New York City, the O'Mahoney Guards of San Francisco, the Emmett Guards from Richmond, Boston and Philadelphia. By 1860, O'Mahoney went to Ireland to meet with Stevens and finalized the plans for the latest uprising. Okay. The Americans Finians. How long did it take to get to Ireland from like, how long? I mean, at least two, probably two months. Two months? Yeah, it was a fucking nightmare. It was a nightmare. Like going to visit someone was two months. Yeah, fuck that. And then you might die of scurvy or whatever. Probably. You can't, I mean, how much... Oh shit, I forgot oranges. Yeah, I thought forgetting something. Yeah, forgetting something. My fucking toothbrush. Fuck, my fucking teeth are gonna fall out of my fucking head. So the American Finians would provide... Did I shut the fucking... Did I shut the fucking door? Oh, fuck me. I let the candle on. Did I leave that fucking candle lit? Oh, motherfucker. Fuck it. Oh shit. Fuck. I'm not gonna be able to stop thinking about that. Oh, I forgot to kill a Protestant. Oh, fuck. Turn around. I'm jumping. The American Finians would provide 5,000 men and 50,000 muskets, but then shit went south. By the time O'Malley got back to the US, the civil war had broken out. This meant that many of the men who were ready to fight to free Ireland were now fighting in the civil war against each other in many cases. Interesting. Timing is everything. Oops. And yet many of the Finians were excited about the war because they thought Irish Americans fighting in the civil war would season them for when they were to fight against England. Fucking practice this is. For the 2% that survived the civil war. Fucking rehearsal for that. But a mighty 2%. This is just a little bit of bullshit we're doing. A mighty 2% we are. Then it will come. During the war, Brigadier General Thomas Francis Meagher proposed the idea of an Irish Brigade. He sent a request to the Secretary of War to authorize to organize an Irish Brigade of 5,000 men. I can do so forthwith and have it ready in 30 days to March. Please reply at once. The Secretary of War accepted the offer at once. Get your Irish on he said. It might maybe not. Get your Irish on? Might not have said that exact words. That can't be. But something to that effect. Hashtag Irish. How did he know? Nice. The Irish Brigade civil war feats were followed on both sides of the ocean. During the fierce battle of Malvern Hill on July 1st, 1862, the Irish Brigade charged several times against an entrenched Confederate line. A Confederate officer looking through his binoculars saw that the Brigade was reforming for another charge and yelled, here comes that damn green flag again. It's just annoyed. Jesus. Fuck me. All right, gentlemen. That's so funny that they just like put them all together. Clump them. Clump them up and let them go do their fucking thing. Jesus Christ. They want to die in this thing. Let them. Yeah. That's really what the angle was. But for them, they were like, they think that we're so fucking unique and special. We're tough, aren't we? We're the fucking, we're very important to the war, they said. Why do they keep just making us charge at the guns? Because there's nobody else who could fucking do it besides us. You heard them back there. We're fucking crucial to this battle. Now take a bite of this potato and have some fucking whiskey. Let's go. That seems stereotypical. No, what's so stereotypical about that? We'll fucking get a clover. Fucking go over there, kiss the Blarney's down, eat a potato. Let's go. Have a little fucking Guinness. Roll over there. Roll over? Roll over there. I was talking to the dog. What did you hear? Oh, no, I just, okay. No, sorry. It doesn't disconnect. No, it makes sense now. You said dog. I thought it was boy. Yeah, no, no. The Civil War also led to something else. Strong Finnean recruitment. Now Finneans were fighting besides other Irishmen and could recruit them for the coming battle against the English. Finnean organizations were established within the federal army. Finnean agents often moved through Union armies with permission from commanders and Finneans did nothing to hide what they were doing and what their goal was. Okay. So they're just straight up recruiting. Yeah. And nobody gives a shit. Nobody gives a shit. There are many times that Finneans from both the North and South put aside their roles. One Irish Confederacy soldier watched several charges of the Irish Brigade at Fredericksburg. When he saw the green flag bearer go down and die, he waited until nightfall, then crawled out on the battlefield and rescued the green banner. He wrapped himself in it and ran for the Union side. His own Confederacy soldiers shot at him, wounding him, but he still made it and delivered the green flag to the other side. Then what? You have earned the goodwill and esteem of the Brigade, said General Meager. You're welcome to join us if you wish. Oh, thank God you get the invite then, right? Well, we appreciate the flag. Back to your side. The officer passed and went back to Confederacy. He what? He went back to Confederacy. After that? He's like, no, still against the blacks. I just wanted to get to... I wanted you to get... I'm going to have to shoot at you as you go back over to that side. That's all right then. I just wanted you to have the green back. Okay, thank you. Okay, good work. Kill him. Irish soldiers on both sides would often bring news from Ireland to their Irish brothers fighting on the other side. Just wanted to stop by with this newspaper. There you go. Look at that. Okay, I'll see you. All right. I'll try to kill you in a bit. Okay. Thank you. Blacks are good. Yes, sir. I don't agree. I do not agree. Meanwhile, the Finians held their first Congress in America in 1863. This was the first time all representatives had been together. At this point, there were 68 circles made up of 15,000 men. This circle thing is getting a little old. Not following up. All right, well, it's going to happen. You're in here a couple more times. How many circles? There's 68 right now. 15,000? 15,000 guys. All right. That's a lot of guys for back then. That's not a little. Although half of those men were now fighting in the Civil War. So they drew up a constitution and rules for general government, though it mostly represented a military organization than a civic one. The meeting was mostly about their, quote, intense and undying hatred towards the monarchy and oligarchy of Great Britain. Still sticking to that. Yeah. So they got together and they're basically their first meeting was, yeah, those fucking cunts. Fuck the fuck. I mean, you know what? I keep thinking about how much the fuck had British a terrible. Hey, let's write that down. Fuck the. Yeah. All right. It'll be a nice ring to it. Fuck. All right. Right off the bat. Fuck the British. There we go. All right. Next. Next. Hey, let's do another meeting in New York. All right. Fine. See you in a bar. Ta. They believe Britain had ground their country to dust, hung their brothers, starved their people and scattered them to foreign lands. Where did they get on thinking that? This was all put down in the Declaration of Purpose. They declared their allegiance to the US just so people didn't get riled up about a foreign army on there. About a constitution within a constitution. They also published that they could not be a secret organization. That was because the Catholic Church had condemned the Finians due to their secrecy. And the Irish people were declared to constitute one of the distinct nationalities of the earth. What? I don't know. What does that even mean? It means they're just saying. They want to win a prize that nobody's ever heard of. Different and real. A disti... What do they want to be? More distinct. What the fuck do they want to be? We're like a real people. A distinct national. Yeah, we're like different than others. We're like real from an island. Yeah. Well, listen, they did get St. Patrick's Day. Thank you. Yeah. How about this? We'll give you a day where everybody gets drunk and pisses in the streets. Okay. All right. There you go, buddy. Get out of here now, you little stinker. And sympathy for the Polish people were expressed. Wait, the... Wait. Also, hey, let's put something in there about the Polish. A shout out in their own constitution? Hey, they're okay. Also, the Polish seem really fucking cool. Be nice to them. Sorry about the... We want to say we're sorry to the Polish for just, you know, being Polish and whatnot. Just a quick hello to the Polish people. Hang in there, lads. God, you're fucking stupid. They're fucking... Did you hear about that one of them? What's that? If you've heard, he fucking broke his arm. How's that? He broke his arm raking fucking leaves. How? Fell out of the fucking tree. God damn. Put that one in the... Put that one in the constitution, damn it. So many of them are bloody illiterate. Holy shit, half the constitution's Polish jokes now. There's a lot of the Polish people, you know, that are illiterate. That's why one of them wrote a fucking book on how to read. How's that? It's a book on how to read. The fuck you gonna learn from that? You know, they just fucking got into the army and the fucking Navy business. How's that? They have a fucking... This thing called a submarine, right? Yeah, but it's not going so well. They put screen doors on the fucker. Okay, put that one in the constitution also. And then put, simply, we're sorry about all this, out of the butt. John... I'm starting to think our constitution's a bunch of Polish jokes. Let's put fuck Britain back in there. P.S. Still fucking hate England. John O'Mahony then resigned to make it a truly democratic organization and placed the Brotherhood under the guardianship of the General Convention. He was then immediately elected head center. Alrighty. Okay, I'm out, Dan. I'm back in. Thanks, boys. Alright, hello. So then, 1965 rolled around and the Civil War was starting to wrap up. Now, thousands of seasoned Finian fighters were coming home and they wanted action on behalf of Ireland. They want to go... What do you mean they wanted action? They want to fucking... They want to start the war against... They're ready already? Yeah, they're done with the Civil War and they're like, I'm fucking ready to go. Let's tear this shit up. I mean, take a couple weeks. Nope. There was another convention called in Cincinnati in January 1865. Now there were 300 circles in America. 600 delegates came to the convention. A report was read that stated Ireland was very supportive of the cause and was ready for the fight. There was some reorganization of the governing body, but everything was pretty much looking up. Oh, boy. And then there was this Finian action in America was getting attention across the Atlantic. Newspapers in Ireland and England reported on the developments, creating a lot of anxiety. I wonder if there were different angles in those articles. Less positive, you think? Yeah, just a difference. Was there a chasm between opinions? The Irish government set about trying to stop the Brotherhood on both sides of the pond. But the Finians were being handled with great skill and the British authorities were baffled. American politicians were courting the Finians because they believe the Finians controlled the Irish vote. At the same time, some Irish veterans of the Civil War went to Ireland and were found leading military drills. Okay, so they're Wow. Okay, by the way, just this is a little al-Qaeda. This is classic America. Yeah, for sure. Most of the shit with the settlements in Israel is are all exported Americans being fucking assholes. Like we just export nonsense. Yeah. All that shit in El Salvador, we just export fucking violence. Well, yeah, no. It's what happened in the last five years is all we remember. Yeah. Okay. Uh-huh. What? It soon became apparent that this was a massive movement and that the British military had been infiltrated by Finians. A reward was offered for the capture of Stevens, who was quickly caught and then immediately escaped. All transatlantic steamers were boarded and searched for Irish American looking people. Oh man, that's so great. That's just like classic like disguise. Just like going up to a guy like, hey there. What? Hey, blue eyes. How you doing there? Fine. How are you? Just having to pretend. No, I was just going to Ireland on my holiday. Am I from Ireland? No, I'd never been to Ireland before in my life. I heard that there is very greens and lots of fucking times. Lots of times. Oh, clovers. Oh shit. I fucking blew it didn't I? I'm trying to tell you, sir, I fucking am excited to see my mom and hug my fucking daughter. Can you do me a favor, sir? Can you say clover? Say clover, please? Clover, clover, clover. Claver. What? Fucking clovers, mate. Oh no, no, wait. Things were building and the American Finns were ready to go to war when suddenly Stevens called everything off. In September, the Revolutionary Paper, the Irish people was seized. Their information was found on the organization. This led to many arrests. British soldiers began to be arrested for mutiny. The Finns had embedded themselves all over the British army. In America, an emergency congress was called in Philadelphia in October. There was irritation that in Ireland, Stevens had called it off, leading to the current mess. The American Finns wanted to take action now and they transferred their anger to O'Mahoney, who was seen as Stevens' right hand man. The loudest voice among those wanting action was William Roberts. But O'Mahoney was against taking action and wanted to wait for Stevens to give the order. He spoke aggressively against those suggesting action and this led to a fraction among the Finns. It was only a fucking matter of time. I mean, it had to happen. I mean, come on. One of the reasons the third congress was called was to kick O'Mahoney to the curb. At the third congress, the Finns formed a distinct Republican within the American Republic. Real weird. Their capital was in a mansion in New York City on Broadway and Union Square. Their capital? It flew the Finian flag of a harp and a sunburst. It's a little sad. It's their capital. It's a little tree housey. It is a little tree housey. A little sad. They created a president, secretary of treasury, military, naval and civil affairs, and a senate and so on and so forth. I mean, but it really doesn't, I mean, it's adorable. It's totally adorable. Let him play dress up. I'm the fucking president. You're the fucking secretary of state. You're a senator. Okay. Right? I got to go inside the capitol to go to the- Sorry, mom. To go wee. Sorry. Oh, fine. Go wee. Also, I have to leave at 5.30 because my mom wants me back. All right. Fine. Listen. Jesus Christ. The demand was made that O'Malley resign, but he refused. Then the office of president was created. The president was given more power than the head center, so O'Malley was now second in command. Whoops. Roberts was made president. An immediate division was created amongst the Finians. O'Mahoney then formed his own governing body. And in December, an emergency session was called and O'Mahoney was impeached. In what war? In made up town. You're no longer head of the fantasy league. I mean, they may as well have dice. It's a fucking board game. I rolled a four and I'm out. Right. You pulled the impeachment card. Go to fucking jail. So two bitter factions formed, the O'Mahoney wing and the Roberts wing. The reason for the split was this. O'Mahoney wanted to wait and keep planning for revolution in Ireland. Roberts wanted to do something now. And his plan was to invade Canada. Okay. Okay. So, right. So, what's wrong? I don't see what. Which side were the people leaning toward? Because it seems like one seems pretty pragmatic. Then one seems like a film in 1989. In February 1866, Roberts called a fourth convention in Pittsburgh and declared that the Finians would invade Canada and seize land. Oh my God. If we can get a foothold on which to raise the Irish flag, we shall be recognized as a government once established, it will have the sympathies of every Irishman, Irishman in every quarter of the land, seeing that we are working instead of talking. The cause will go triumphantly forward until there will not be left a single sax on caught throat. Are you with me? Who's a fucking idiot? We are. This faction also caused leaks. Those on both sides openly talk shit about the other to the press. This led to the plans of an invasion of Canada being divulged to Canada, the US, and Great Britain. I mean, okay. So, isn't that good? The odds already against you. Yeah. The only weapon which wasn't a weapon was your secrecy. And now Canada's like, oh, the Irish are going to try to take control. And not very many of them, a handful. Now O'Honey didn't want to be upstage and he wanted to get control of the Finian Brotherhood back. So he called a session of what he called the military Congress to discuss an invasion of Canada himself. So wait, now he wants to fucking invade Canada? I mean, like, so now there's just two differing opinions on how to invade Canada as opposed to someone who's like, we shouldn't invade Canada. No, I'll get there first. Upon rough reevaluation, we should invade Canada, but this way. Me in front. At this point in time, the war was over and the Union had been none too pleased with the British siding with the Confederacy. Also, most Americans thought that eventually Canada would be annexed. Okay. So there were Americans like, yeah, it's gonna be ours. The thing up there is going to be because it's a British controlled. So they're like, yeah, we'll get we'll get that. It's our hat that that'll be part of us. And there were now tons of unemployed ex Irish soldiers milling about who were ripe for Finian recruitment. The Finians had also been allowed to purchase war surplus arms. And the government was basically silent about the Finian plan to invade America. What to invade Canada? Canada. Sorry. Yeah. So we were just like, it's like when when Saddam Hussein was like, I'm going to avoid I'm going to invade Kuwait. And America was like, hmm. This led the Finians to think the US would support their action. Interesting. Their belief was we like to lead people on. Yeah. Their belief was once they started fighting and took some land, the US would come to their aid and a full war with Canada would be on. But I mean, their plan is like, it's their plan is a lot of like, it's like me being like, I'll get a lot of pussy if I did a ton of pie and I went to pie eating contest. What they think that if they take over land in Canada, particularly around the St. Lawrence River, where the shipping channel is, that they'll then be able to trade that land. But it's crazy. It's not. I mean, really, though, it isn't like it's barely grounded in reality, right? Like the only thing that's realistic about it is that you can try it. It's a horrible plan. And it won't happen. You know, I mean, obviously it didn't happen, but it don't know that it doesn't happen. Do you know Canadian history? Oh, man, I know, dude, if this was a Canadian history podcast, you'd have to get someone else. The Finians wrote a battle song called We've Got Nothing Else to Do. OK, so as far as battle songs go and their follow up, fuck it, we're bored. It's right up there where the Russians were shitting on the pot. Got nothing else to do. That's not a battle song. France is, uh, fuck it, why not? The Mexican We've Got Nothing Thursday. How about that? Oh, God, we've got nothing else to do at the military. Congress. Omohoney decided to upstage the Roberts wing and invade Canada on his own because he was trying to get there first. The plans were done very quickly. Shocking. They were going to land a Finian force on Campobello Island near Maine. They would be led by Bernard Killian. And it was far from secret. The Illustrated London News reported, quote, it's here. They come look out. It seems the design of Killian and his accomplishment accomplices to provoke a breach of neutrality on the part of the native population with a view of causing war between Great Britain and the United States. I mean, it just like so then when you're there and you're about to orchestrate your dumb plan, you have to be like, no, no, no, no, no, no, that's not us. We would never know. I understand what the papers are saying. I'm just here with a thousand of me friends. Wait, me and a thousand of my besties. We're looking for a rainbow. We decided to come here and fucking rainbow hunt for a day. Now if you don't want us here, we understand. Yeah, that's OK. But we're no plans of war. No, what are you talking about? We love rainbows. Come on now. Please. You've got to get your pot of gold. Please. Have you seen a little green fella? Listen, don't listen to Sergeant Stereotype. I mean, Jeff. It's O'Neill, you fuck. On April 17, 1866, a Finian Brotherhood war party of 700 men arrived on the main shore opposite the island. But because the whole thing had been so well reported, the British were ready. I mean, so ready. Royal Navy warships were sent to where the Finians were on April 19th. Warships? Yeah. You're fuck. You're in over your head. No, it's 700 guys. They're good. I don't know. On April 19th, the United States confiscated the Finian munitions ship Ocean Spray. That's not good. The Robert's Wing called the attempted raid by O'Mahoney the Eastport Fizzle. The sole accomplishment of the Finian raid had been to take a Canadian flag from a tiny house on a different island. That was the mission? Well, no, it's all they ended up doing. Oh, that's what they did? The mission was to actually invade, but the warships came, so they grabbed the flag off of some guy's house. Okay, so it turned into one task on a scavenger hunt. Ha ha! We put that up in the clubhouse. Well, I wouldn't say it was a total loss. We did, after all, get that flag from that fucking old lady's yard. Right. Right. We lost, sure, did we lose 75? We lost a few fellas. We lost a few fellas back there trying to get that flag. But we got a goddamn flag. But look, the point is, we have a novelty-sized flag. This was the end of O'Mahoney. What? Stevens came from Ireland on May 11th to accept O'Mahoney's resignation. Stevens then turned to Roberts. He wanted Roberts to just wait for the time to start the fight for Irish independence. Roberts promised he would not invade Canada. And he invaded it right away. Then three weeks later, he invaded Canada. Three weeks! They were led by... Like, Canada's like, what's going on? Please. What are you guys doing? You just cleaned up from your flag. Are we bothering you? Yeah, fuck, we're Canada. That's our slogan, fuck, we're Canada. Yeah. We're like, well, we've got nothing better to do. Yeah, there's song. We've nothing else to do. They were led by a major in the US Army, Major General Thomas Sweeney, who took a leave from the army to go invade another country. Sorry, he just took a five? Yeah, he was like, ah, you know what? I'm going to leave my position here and then with a bunch of bros, going to try to invade Canada. These are the vacation days I'd like to take. His plan was to invade Canada in the east and west, cutting the country in half and keeping reinforcements from arriving in the east. But it's just impasse. What? It's just impasse. You don't know that. Again, it's pretend. How do you know that? Are they six? It feels like dress up. First Sweeney was to send Colonel John O'Neill with 1000 soldiers across the border near Buffalo and to Fort Erie, Canada. This was to be a diversionary attack, which would allow other raids to progress. On May 22nd, O'Neill got orders to mobilize his men and go to Cleveland by train. At Louisville, Kentucky, he was joined by Colonel Owen Starr and his Finian regiment. When they were in Cleveland, word came that the attack across the Great Lakes had been aborted. The two regiments were ordered to go to Buffalo. John O'Neill took the troops by train up to Buffalo. He and 150 men left Nashville on May 11th at a stop in Louisville. Yeah, I already did that. Then James Haggerty came on board with 100 Finian troops. All the soldiers were instructed to wear clothes, work clothes. Work clothes. So they didn't look like soldiers. Right. Okay. They went, don't wear your Finian uniform. All the booze on that train, they were like, yeah, we ran out of hours ago. Yeah, there were guys drinking whiskey. I didn't put it in here where there were all these guys drinking whiskey. I was like, I can't, it's too stereotypical. Of course. Well, it honestly goes without saying. I mean, saying Irish people on a train, you know they're drinking whiskey. The train pulled into Cleveland late in the evening of May 28th. O'Neill expected Finian General William Francis Lynch to be there with boats to carry them to Canada, but there were no Finian boats in Cleveland. O'Neill and the others hid in warehouses on the Cleveland waterfront while Finian senators tried to figure out what was going on. What? That's not good. No boats, apparently. So what's going on? All right, next. So what's your fucking plan and your fake army? Get on the trains to Buffalo, they said. They were on the eastbound trains by 10 PM. Finians were said to be on the move all over New England and along the Great Lakes, and US officials were attempting to confirm these reports. Finian Commander Sweeney had sent his forces on several contradictory paths, hoping to confuse British spies. Groups of Finian soldiers left Cleveland by train in all directions, wearing conspicuously uniform green caps and other emerald tinted accessories. So he just sent a bunch of guys off in different directions, looking like they were Finians. And then the British and Americans like, what's happening? What? Oh fuck, they're going to Toledo. Like just total chaos. Ah, they're in Syracuse. So is, I mean, it's sort of like it is scrambling them a little bit. They are a little like, what the fuck is happening right now? No, it is a smart move. Okay. A Syracuse newspaper reported Finians moving both ways through the city railroad station. It's amazing that they had to take trains for their invasion. It's well, how else are you going to get up there? It's like, it's like your mom driving you to a fight. You can't march. You got to go conspicuously. Yeah. No, we're like, so the train's going to be 15 minutes too late. So we'll still be invading. Shit. Probably about 45 minutes after. Well, this train's quite full. Yeah. So let's innovate, but have a few minutes to yourself before we get on the train and then start the invasion. On the outskirts of Buffalo, O'Neill's train slowed so men could jump off along the tracks. An earlier wire had warned that the Finians, that city police were waiting for their arrival. Okay. So, right. The Buffalo Circle members led the Finian soldiers to halls, warehouses, and barns throughout South Buffalo. Later that day, ammunition was loaded into furniture wagons from a train in the Buffalo Freight Yard. Okay. They got to Buffalo on May 29th and broke into small groups, taking to different homes of the Irish American community. At midnight on June 1st, Colonel Starr and a small party went across the Niagara River and secured a tiny village called Bertie Township. Bertie? Bertie. Bertie. So the objective was to seize Welland Canal, which would paralyze shipping between Lake Erie and Ontario. Okay. On Thursday, May 31st, it became apparent that Finian forces were massing in the area of Malone and St. Albans for a push across the Canadian border. This was also information point, there was also information pointing to a crossing of the Niagara River from Buffalo. British Army units in Canada were alerted, as well as the volunteer militia of Upper Canada. At sundown, John O'Neill was ordered to lead the Buffalo Expedition across the Niagara River into Canada. Barges had been positioned at a dock in Black Rock, New York, just north of Buffalo, and steam tugs were to take these across the river on the morning of June 1st. Okay. O'Neill's men were given ammunition as they moved from dock to barge. Rifles would be waiting for them on the Canadian shore. All righty. O'Neill was a smart military man with civil war experience and the attack was well executed. At the same time, his force was made up of experienced veterans, while Canadian's forces were made up of inexperienced kids. One of the Canadian forces was led by a 42-year-old businessman from Hamilton, Ohio named Booker, who had never led a body of troops larger than a battalion. Now he was in charge of an 850-man brigade. So Canada, even knowing that this was probably imminent, was still just like, yeah, we just put this guy who has no idea what he's doing in charge of our army. So that'll be fine. So the Irish are sort of like vets who've been fighting, they know their shit, and they're just fucking pissed. Like, they can get fired up about Canada real easy. Like, they're just like, just imagine the accents and go stab them. We're finally attacking Canada, for all the years of fucking us. Finally, revenge. Yeah, but we did nothing to you. Finally. What? What do you got? Any last words, you fucking Canadian fuck? No, last words, I don't know what you- You killed my fucking family! What are you doing, eh? Stab him! O'Neill got word that two Canadian forces were marching toward each other to join up, so he went to make sure that didn't happen. But first he destroyed a thousand muskets. Wait, what? These guns were brought for the Irish Canadians who the Finians were sure would flock to them once they heard about the invasion plan. But none came. Yeah, because they were like, Canada's great. Canada's really fantastic. We got health insurance, it's all great up here. It's great. It's terrific. At the same time- And have you seen you guys lately? We're not chopping at the bit to get back into that life. Just so you can see what I'm talking about- The difference. You guys are invading Canada. We're just living our life. It's sort of like your pigs that a wizard turned into men. And that terrifies us. We're very happy here. We have a daughter, we have a lovely dog, it's part wolf. And you guys are drunk and the smell is, it's tough. At the same time, because the coming attacks were so well known, the British Embassy in Washington notified authorities in Canada of every Finian move. Because of the inexperience of seemingly everyone on the Canadian side, when they came face to face with the Finians, they had not eaten in almost two days. Oh my god. Okay, great. They're fucked. Oh shit, we forgot sandwiches. Does anyone have GORP? Did nobody bring GORP or jerky? Nobody brought any food. I'm sorry, everyone shut up. Is there literally no GORP? What about poutine? Does anyone have poutine, GORP, jerky or granola? You guys, we're gonna be fucking hungry. The Canadians had also been given 28 rounds per man. So once the fighting started, they quickly ran out of bullets. Jesus. No bullets, no food, Canada is fighting. So a force made up of 840 Canadians approached the Finian line and two Finian officers on horseback rode up to see what was going on. Someone on the Canadian side freaked out and yelled, Calvary, look out for the Calvary. Wait, wait. Oh boy. So some dude just ran into a theater and shot at fire. The Canadians then took the shape to avoid a Calvary attack. Because of one psycho? Because some guy yelled, Calvary, it was just two guys on a horse. He was hungry and he just wasn't ready for war and he just was like, Calvary. So the way they did this is they formed a big square in the middle of the road, which basically made them ducks in a barrel. And there was no Calvary, just a couple of guys on horses. So O'Neill ordered a bayonet attack and the Canadians ran. It was total chaos. I'm sorry, just to be clear. So they're all formed up in line. So there's two Irish ride up. Two Irish Finians ride up on horses. 800 Canadians freak the fuck out. Form into a square. Form into a square. So now they can easily be shot and killed and stabbed. And basically just flee. And then the Finians charge and then they just all run away. Interesting. Is that how they drew it up? It would be great if that was the general's exact plan. It was total chaos. A lot of Canadians could have died, but the Finians stopped their pursuit to collect mementos on the battlefield. Also, they were probably like holding their sides from laughing. They were like, fuck, I can't fucking stop them. They just fucking ran away. Did you see their fucking plan? Holy shit. They fucking turned into a fucking cube and then ran. Fucking hell, I'm pissing over here. I really am fucking out. I haven't laughed that hard in fucking years, mate. Hey, watch this, a trinket. Yeah, look at that. That's a lovely brooch. So the Finians had won this battle. O'Neill then asked for reinforcements and marched toward the Niagara River. O'Neill's men got into their boats, but found themselves staring down the US military steamship, the Michigan. There it is. Once the boats were off the Canadian shore, the Michigan escorted them back to the US and arrested them. So now the US was trying to figure out what to do with this mess and the Canadians were mourning their lost soldiers and at the same time more Finian forces were gathering to attack at Malone and Potsdam, New York and in Vermont. The Canadian militia under the leadership of Captain W.W. Carter. Did a lot of people know about this? No, I don't think so. So he was told that a force of 1500 Finians were going to cross from Vermont. Carter sent a scout down to check. The scout just rode into the Finian camp, counted them all, checked out their weaponry and pretty much everything else and not one Finian noticed he was there. What that dude did was he just acted like he belonged. I always think that when you drive around LA there's so many times they'll be just like a free meal because they're shooting something. There's like craft service. You could just walk up. You literally, if you don't question anything, you can just walk up there and just get some fucking macaroni, asparagus and like a muffin and get the fuck out. Totally. Nobody and nobody will say shit. No one will say a word because everybody would be worried. Yeah. Who's that guy? I don't know. Not a lot of people relating it to crafty. So the scout came back and told Carter there were 700 Finians about to cross the border. So naturally Carter ordered a retreat and moved his forces 15 miles north of the border. Wait what? What? Why? What? What? Are Canadians maybe Irish? Feels very- Then it's the perfect Irish war. Like this shouldn't be going as well. On June 7th, the Finians invaded Quebec and secured the- The Finians invaded Quebec? Hey, what the fuck are you guys doing here? Yeah, we're fucking taking your fucking lawn, mate. Frack. And secured four villages under the command of Finian Brigadier General Samuel Spears. These Finians were not as cool as the other ones, and they looted houses, stole livestock, and terrorized the population. Then, Andrew Jackson, president, who loved cheese, loved cheese, loved cheese and loved to fucking duel, he had had enough of this shit. On June 5th, he declared the attack as an obvious neutrality law violation from now on US forces would not look the other way if Finians were going to invade Canada. Not only had the US not joined the fight to help the Finians, they were now going to stop the Finians. This was the exact opposite of what the Finians were expecting. Yeah. The US impounded Spears ammunition supplies in Vermont. Spears then made a speech in Canada, and the Finians headed back into the US. His speech was like, well, now we're fucked. Let's head back, boys. OK, boys. Let's go. That was fun. The Finians were furious at the US for what they saw as a betrayal. Spears was taken into custody by US armed forces when he arrived in Vermont. Further instructions came to arrest anyone near the border who appeared to be a Finian. That's hilarious. Yeah. Excuse me. Yes. What are you doing? Oh, this is my farm. I'm just farming. Finian? What? Finian? Did you say Finian? Did you say it? What did you say? I thought you said Finian. You're saying you're a Finian? No, you said Finian. You just said Finian. No, because I thought you said it. Are you a Finian? No, I'm here farming. Finian? Finian? Why do you keep saying Finian, bro? He's a Finian! Now the US was in an awkward position. It didn't want to start a war with England and didn't want to upset all the Irish Americans who vote, so the Finians were quietly released and given train tickets home. So this is the greatest example of who gives a fuck that has ever happened in the history of the world. So let's just reset everything. Let's just pretend it never happened, reset it. Sweeney returned to the regular army. The New York Times described Spears' raid as, quote, an attack on a deserted dunghill. The total dead in the raids was 31 with 103 wounded. Naturally, the Irish weren't done. Oh, of course not. Why would they be? O'Neill received a hero's welcome when he returned, and the fundraising continued. The Finians now decided not to try to split Canada, instead just invade from the east. But at this point, the US was arresting Finians, and it was getting more difficult. In Canada, they had a big event to celebrate their awesome defeat of the Finians. You fucking pussies. So yeah, don't teach me. Don't you fuck with us. We'll fucking take you down. Promise. Isn't it true that you guys just formed a square and ran? Yeah, but look at the end result of that. Well, that's because a US military ship came. Shh, shh, shh, shh. To Canada! Oh, Canada. What are the words? But the Canadian military heads knew they had to get their shit together, especially with the Finians regrouping and the US not doing much about it. So they rearmed their militias with better weapons that they bought from US weapons manufacturers. Britain then passed the British North America Act, creating the Dominion of Canada. It prepared to withdraw its forces. Canada would now have to defend itself. Canada began to organize a 40,000 man militia. So the Finians were instrumental in Canada becoming a country. I mean, Canada was like, we'll just be really cool. Yeah, we'll be honest. They're like, no, we're going to try to fuck you. O'Neill's star continued to rise. In 1868, he was elected president of the Finian Senate. He tried to rebuild the Finian army for another Canadian raid, but the Senate was not up for it. O'Neill did not give a shit, and he was Irish. So he began to prepare for his own invasion of Canada in the spring of 1870. His own invasion? Yeah. A one man party? One man invasion. He called for his own convention in New York City. What? Who calls for their own convention? Like throwing yourself a surprise birthday party. It was sparsely attended, but it resulted in a third Finian brotherhood faction being barred. What? I mean, honestly, they're like gremlins. They're fucking everywhere now. He set up a base in Vermont, built a supply of 15,000 weapons, three million rounds of ammunition, and one field artillery piece. Then he called for the Finians to come and fight, but only 400 dudes showed up. On May 25, 1870, O'Neill led a force into Canada. No, Canada is like serious. Guys, honestly, guys, we totally get that you want to take it. We get it. But please. Fuck you. You're Canadian cunts. I know, I understand. And you've been very clear. You guys have been here like every week for the past. Fuck yourself. I understand. We're fighting for Ireland. Yeah, but we have 40,000 people. Ireland! Let's go. But no, honestly, you guys are clearly intoxicated. Fuck these Canadian cunts. Yeah, no, no, no. And I know that you have one piece of field artillery, but please, just go away. At the same time. Charge! On May 25, 1870, O'Neill led a force into Canada. At the same time, another very small group was raiding from New York. The Canadians had known the Finians were coming for three days. So a large force marched south, while a bunch of smaller militias waited near the border. The Finians crossed the border at noon and immediately came under fire from everywhere. The Irishmen scattered, many retreating back across the border. Some stayed to fight. At 1 PM, a US marshal found O'Neill near the border on the US side and arrested him. But the fight still raged on, as some Finians refused to retreat. At 2 PM, a Canadian cavalry arrived as backup. But at the same time, the New York Finian attacking force arrived. The fight went on. At 5 45 PM, the Canadians charged, and all the Finians ran back across the border, leaving most of their equipment. Not one Canadian was killed or wounded. Two days later, the Finians attempted another raid near Holbrook Corners, Quebec, led by General Owen Starr. They took up positions. Then 1,000 Canadians came to defend their country. The fighting lasted about 10 minutes before the Finians retreated. The Sydney Mail reported that the Finians continued to, quote, deny the truth of the reported defeat. This time, Tammany Hall, in an attempt to gain some political capital, provided all the soldiers with train tickets home. That's like two hours and 10 minutes of cumulative battle, basically. Yeah, pretty much. Amazing. So Neil was no longer hot shit in the Finian world. His evasion was ill planned and embarrassing. He resigned from the Finian Senate and joined what was known as the Savage Wing under the control of John Savage. The old Senate then called for a convention in September 1870 in Cincinnati. I think this is the original Finian group. Who knows? There's not a single Finian group that's been called the Savage Wing under the control of John Savage. Who knows? There's nine. They then created a new organization called the. What? No, more new parts. Stop. You're overbranching out. Called the United Irishman. That's what a horrible name for this. But they couldn't get anything done and eventually just turned the organization over to two recent Irish exiles. What? John Savage was a leading hero and he wanted a redemption. So. No. What? Dave. He. Dave. Dave. Dave. Dave. He hatched a new raid plan. No, Dave. No. This time for real. Raid number nine. We're not fucking around. He needs to let it go. We need four magic Limericks. No, no, no. No, John. Listen. A bunch of clovers. No, no, I understand. But listen. We can't keep going to fucking take Canada. No, no, no. Listen. Limericks. There once was an army from the south whose butt kept writing checks couldn't be cashed by their mouth. They'd fight all they could and do what they would. But at the end of the day, they went to. Manitoba. All righty. Thank you. Thank you. The plan was this time there would be an attack on Manitoba, Canada to capture Fort Gary. The plan was presented to the Finian council, who were 100% not interested. Yeah. It's over. But O'Neill kept pushing. Stop. Finally, the council agreed to supply O'Neill with men and arms if the plans were not disclosed openly. Is that not a no fucking brainer? That is a huge part of this. OK. This time don't fucking tell anyone. Like, oh, well, we was going to fucking tell people again because it's fun to talk. I get drunk and I say things. It's just fun to talk about. OK. O'Neill then resigned from the Finian Brotherhood and set out on his own to invade Canada as an independent. With five friends. But a British spy was now a member of the Finian military council. Oh my god. It's even sad that they had to do that. They really didn't have to do that. It's like, it's over. You could send like a dog. He gave 400 weapons to O'Neill, then informed the Canadian police what was about to happen. This new invasion was to take place on October 5, 1871. The worst part of the invasion plan was that it was all to take place on American soil. What? The Infinians were going to invade America from America. In 1870, it had been determined that the international border was too far south. And a new survey led to the border moving two miles north, putting the Hudson Bay Trading Company post in the United States. So O'Neill had no idea. Jesus Christ. With 40 insane Irishmen. He just didn't know he's going to invade America on accident? With 40 insane Irishmen, he attacked. With 40 people? 40 people. He attacked and occupied the Hudson Bay Company outpost without realizing the outpost was now one mile inside of the US. It's not going to end well for him. US Army Captain Lloyd Wheaton was sent to respond to the invasion of the US. When the army arrived, O'Neill's men dashed into the woods. 10 were captured. One of them was O'Neill. Honestly, how? He knows that he has to know that 40 people, regardless of where it is. Completely insane. He has to know that there's no way. No, it's fucking crazy. Now at this point, he's just like, this is what I do. We're going back in. He's like Trump. He's like, look, I'll just keep being sensational, even though people stop giving a fuck. After O'Neill's capture, the army learned that 50 British soldiers had rushed over the new border and now occupied the Hudson Bay outpost. The US Army asked the US Secretary of State to demand that the British withdraw from the US. But the Secretary of State refused to press the British for withdrawal, claiming that it was well known that the boundary was unsettled and that it was extremely premature to call the occupation of the post a willful trespass. So the Finians had actually lost some of the US to Canada. So they made Canada bigger. On accident. So far, with their actions, they have made for an independent Canada, and they've made Canada a little bit bigger. So what they wanted to do was they wanted to take over Canada and instead accidentally invaded the US and Canada got bigger. Yeah, and stronger. And now they're in the woods like, ugh. Listen, new plan, new plan. The soldiers who were captured were released as they were considered men who were duped by O'Neill. That's just sad. O'Neill and three other leaders were brought before the US commissioner of the Dakota territory. He released them all on technicalities. The prosecutor didn't want to pay for the trial. And they didn't really care. Guys, just get the fuck out of here. Can you guys just go away? Is that a thing that can happen? Like I said, we're sorry and whatnot. We obviously realize now that we shouldn't have been invading Canada as much as we was. But I think if you let us go on our own merits and whatnot, there's no way we'd try to do that again. I mean, maybe if there was a movement. I wouldn't be like knocking on doors. Like I said, a lot of times we actually did have a bit of momentum going for us and whatnot. So I'm not saying to die. Can you just go? Yeah, for sure. Absolutely. Yeah, you're free. Please don't come back. Yeah, no. Thank you so much. Attorney General Williams was not down with the release. He wanted O'Neill prosecuted. So O'Neill was rearrested in Minnesota. You're under arrest for the same shit from before. Then the Minnesota attorney general didn't want to prosecute. So he signed a lack of evidence and let O'Neill go. You're exhausting. This was the end of the Finian raids into Canada. O'Neill spent the rest of his life promoting Irish immigration to Nebraska. That's cool here now. There's corn. Let's invade Nebraska. The city was eventually named after him in Nebraska. Shitheadsville? There is a fucking city in Nebraska named after an idiot. Yeah, but you know what? He's their idiot. He is. He went there, he loved Nebraska. So they're like, he's ours. Yeah, he's our guy. He died on January 7, 1878 and is buried in Omaha. After 1867, the Irish Republican Brotherhood chose to support neither of the existing feuding Finian factions, but instead promoted a renewed Irish Republic organization in America called Clan Nagel. Clan Nagel continued for years and would team up with any country opposed to Britain. This included the Germans in World War I. Of course, the Irish Civil War caused a split in Clan Nagel in 1920. After one of the factions dissolved in 1926, the Clan Nagel formally associated with the reorganization Irish Republican Army in the same fashion as it had with the IRB. Clan Nagel still exists today, much change from the days of the, I don't know what that is, and as recently as 1997, another internal split occurred as a result of the IRA shifting away from using violence. The country should just be called factions. Fucking Irish. God damn it. Those are my ancestors. That is insanity. Right? Insane. I mean, what the fuck? There's no way that one of my relatives was not involved in that. Because they came over during the potato famine. There's no fucking way. But the idea of like an immigrant population in a country deciding to go invade a different country and using this as their home base. It's fucking madness. Repeatedly. Repeatedly. And it's Canada. And there was no chance of doing it. There's no chance, but it's still like, it's like, it would be like declaring a war on puppies. It's like, what? No. You know? Like. Fuck. Well, good to know. Good to know. Go to lapodfest.com to buy tickets to Los Angeles Podfest in September. And you can also there get the live stream. You can buy that. Use the coupon code DOLLOP. And if you want to see shows this week and next week in Australia, go to daymanthanycomedy.com. And there you'll find links to everywhere to buy tickets. That's all. I agree. And clover. Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the DOLLOP Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv, August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there. Or join me the next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas. If that doesn't work for you, join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club, August 27th. Go to Gareth Reynolds.com to get tickets for all the.