 Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the UniPub Comedy Club in Canberra. Let's get a big round of applause for Dave Anthony and Gareth Reynolds for a live dollar. Let's go! You're supposed to be my goddamn friends. Okay, just checking. Hi everybody! Dave's gonna take a minute. Jesus Christ Dave, slow down. Thank you. Craig, give it up for Craig. We were delayed a second. Craig and David made this happen. We were delayed a second because that door was locked. And you should have seen Craig trying to get the fucking door open. He was like, alright, oh fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck! Was dynamite. We were just laughing at him and laughing. Yeah, I mean we were literally going, look at him! I mean I didn't mean to be an asshole but I'm like, look at him Dave. He's really moving fast. Those keys are fucking jingling. Well this is great. We're very excited to be here in your nation's capital. We always wanted to visit your nation's capital. Yeah. Well, I mean for me since April but it's still very gratifying. And to come here on your biggest day when your leader announces that he loves anal is a big thing. They're saying anal's the new onion. The sad thing is he probably saw that screenshot or he was watching and he saw it go across the bottom of the screen and he was like, how did they know? And his wife was like, Tony! Who are you telling? How did that even happen? It was a Twitter handle. And then they just tweeted and then on that show because of that then it just, Tony. Just some fucking idiot who's just totally stoned out of his mind. No, no, no, some hero. Some hero. That's what I meant. I meant hero. I did mean hero. Yes, thank you. Is there anything else? Do you want to shout the date? How do you want to do this? We should say tickets. We're doing a stand up show in Perth. Is that right? What happened? I don't know. What did you say? I didn't say anything. Why did they laugh? I don't know what happened. What just happened? And you guys laugh about that? Did someone just get mad? You know this being recorded, right? This is a recorded podcast. We're not allowed to see other coasts? I'm not telling you guys to go to fucking Perth. I'm talking to the recording. Fucking mad about it. No! Your eyes! Fucking go there! A cage just drops down. Craig the key! He's like, I can't fucking, fuck shit, I dropped it down a fucking drain! And we definitely want to thank Dave and Craig who have been great to us. And they run the Can Bear, Can Bear, Can, Can-a-bear? Can-a-bear-a-man? Can-a-bear-ium? Can-a-bear-um? Can-a-bear-perth. Can-a-bear-perth. Can-a-bear-perth, they run the, that's not gonna help as much as you think. Can-bred Comedy Festival. Can-bred Comedy Festival. Here are the things that happened today. If you haven't heard, I lost the SD card that had the podcast on it. I lost the backup SD card that had the podcast on it. And I forgot the posters at the place we're staying at. How is everybody? You know what? Everyone might have had a few drinks last night. That's totally the Perth Laugh-er, too. She's just a fucking firecracker. Our special guest is the crazy person. Yeah, there's no guest tonight, it's just us, which we've never done before, but we kind of wanted to do something like this, because you know, this is what it is normally like in an apartment. Except you guys aren't there. And all the doors are open. Right, and there's a dog that barks. And a crazy man who drags chains. I'll record. The guy who fixes the window. Oh, that's good. So two announcements, because I'm gonna put this up tonight. At Adelaide, we have added a stand-up show with Justin. You know I'm dying to do it. With Justin Hamilton, and that will be tomorrow night. Wednesday 1030 show. And what they're saying is that it could be so nice. I am just becoming, like it is gonna be, I'm gonna be like opening car dealerships eventually in Adelaide. Just like, I don't want to sing the fucking song anymore. Come on down, it could be so nice. And then in Perth, we have a stand-up show on Friday night at 10 at the Civic also, and those tickets. Go to DaveAnthonyComedy.com and I'll put the links up there. Or else you can go to the Facebook page or you can go to the Twitter feed. That shit, I thought you were taking off your shoes. It's not like the plane. Oh, that guy. He takes off his shoes every fucking plane ride, and then he loses them. I lose one. And they slide forward over. So today he's like, I lost my shoe again. I'm like, Jesus Christ. And then he has to go to the guy in the seat in front of us and he's like, hey, haha man, my shoe. Hey stranger, can I have my shoe? And I start laughing and I'm like, this is fun. And the guy's just like. Fucking angry. But he also grabbed it by the bottom. And I was like, what are you, like you could just, I'd be pissed if you had to like grab the bottom of a shoe. It's a high top. Just fucking grab the high top. But he's like, disgusting. He doesn't want your gross dirty feet sweat on him, so he didn't grab the top. Well, his loss, right girls? Stroke. Smell like toast. Anyway those are our flight stories. And that's going to be a second podcast. Dave lost the podcast, I missed the shoe. We're going to start a second podcast called Flight Stories. 1830! What just happened over here? Did someone just get mad at 1830? I feel like we all might by the end of this. What happened? What do you think this show is? Oh, he's the, no, no, he's the guy. Is he the guy? The guy's here. So when we got to the airport, I don't know if you told this story, I'm the only one that didn't get lost, but when we went to the airport to fly out of LA, we got up to the counter and it was Qantas and we said, hey, you know, can we have our tickets? And the guy goes, sure. And he pulls them out. And he goes, this one says, there's a memo on it. It says, no sleep till hippo. And that's Dave's ticket. So we're like laughing, like, ah, that's crazy. And then the guy's like, you have one too. And we all know what it said. Prefers Gary. And so we were like, what the fuck is going on? And there's some legend who was probably in the room tonight who works for Qantas. Works for Qantas. He fucking went in there and put that shit on there. Yeah. Got into their airtight system. Fucking pop nicknames on there and no sleep till hippo. So now we have two legends in Australia. We have the guy who said oofdy goofdy to us. We have eight in the oofdy goofdy. On the tram in Melbourne. And now we have the guy who is in this room somewhere who did the Qantas business. The Qantas quandary. Three. Also Tony Abbott for loving anal. John Fuller was born in Sydney. Not Canberra. He was the illegitimate son of Irish immigrants. All righty. George Fuller who was a seller of vegetables. Some would call him a vegetable salesman. Sure. What a racket. Fancy a bit of broccoli? That's all I got. How about a carrot? Do you like squash? Hello. Hey. I'm the vegetable man. Fancy a fucking cauliflower? How about a tomato? People are like we can see the vegetables. Please just see what you have. His wife was Mary Owen who was known as the gypsy woman. Oh boy. Not a good thing. Nope. That's not a good sign yet. When he was about two years old he was adopted by another man. John Roberts. Wait. I don't know. I'd like to adopt your boy. Too much broccoli. Yeah take the little fucker. The kid's just sitting on the vegetable cart. He's like one boy. That's how. That's how. Fuck it. Yeah. You can take that one. The kid's shitting on the squash. Then why do you put him on the cart? Oh yeah. That's. You're a fucking smart man huh? It's a smarty patch. He was brought up around Campbell town and Appen. Yeah. In school he was categorized as quote one of the bad lots. He loved the bush when he was a boy. He was not that kind. Your kind. He's a regular boy. Kind out there. Oh. Other countries just call it nature. Well there's also a third one. Oh. He's a boy. Keep going. He was fond of the solitude the bush gave. When he was still a young boy he would go off into the bush for days and live off the land. What. He's a boy. Yeah. And his parents are just like. I want to see you when we see you. He don't know. You got two dads now. Yeah he doesn't have parents anymore. He's just got the guy who was known as Jack the Welshman. And he and apparently Jack would be like go off into the forest there. Have a good time. So wait what happened is. So is it the vegetable salesman's out of the picture. Yeah they just some other guy adopted him. It doesn't sound like some other guy adopted him. It sounds like some other guy bought him. Adoption is like you're like oh we don't want him anymore. Go figure it out. That sounds like. Oh we'll take him. I don't know how Australia works. Fair point. I don't know their laws. Okay so Jack the Welshman would just let this boy go wander in the bush for days on end. Yep. Good daddy. So young John would amuse himself by breaking in wild horses and riding them. Okay is that is breaking in just riding. No I think they're running out of wild and he would catch them and he would fucking break them and make them not want to run wild anymore. They would just be like. Right look I'm from America and I know about breaking in fucking horses so get your shit back. If you break in wild horses you fucking break their spirit. Anyway yeah he teach them how to be ridden. Another way of saying killing the horse's spirit. It's kind of like me with Gary. I don't know what you're talking about. Yeah yeah you do. The thing went away. There it is. All right so he's breaking in wild horses. That lady the perf lady still mad about it. Roberts looked after John Fuller until he was 17 and then found him his job a job as a stock writer. He wrote stocks. Wrote stocks. I don't know. I agree I mean I don't even know. It doesn't matter. Okay. Proving. He would break their spirit. He would break the stock spirit. Proving efficient he worked at the station for seven years. So did a station. Sure. But Fuller did not enjoy the work. He wanted something more exciting. That of course was bush ranging. Bush ranging was something that evolved from the convict system established in Australia. The first Bush Rangers were just men who took to the bush to escape a work and the prison system the real horrible criminals were just hung in Britain. So the convicts sent to Botany Bay were more political agitators industrial writers poachers and stealers of handkerchiefs. We've already tried to solve that. Let's not. There's no answer. Many comics became honest and reputable citizens while some of them just weren't big on authority. Early Bush Rangers just wanted freedom. Some joined native tribes. Others stole food from settlers until they were eventually caught and others just died. Just went out there and died. So wait like that you go to the bush and it's basically guys who escaped. They just gave him a fancy fucking name but they're escaped criminals in the bush. Yeah. Okay. So they would they would go out there and live. People would just be like fuck it just don't go there anymore. I think so. Okay. I can't say for sure. Sure. None of them can either. Yeah. I mean there's one person but we shouldn't ask her. Oh she'll tell us. Sticks to an auction. Bush Ranger was a term most often used in New South Wales in Van Diemen's land. They were called Boulters. Okay. Because they bolted? Yeah they ran. Okay. They bolted. That should be a that's a better name. What? Boulter. Yeah. I agree. Good punch up. Thanks. So the first Bush Rangers were just dudes who took to the bush to escape work and one could be a Bush Ranger without committing any crimes. You could just go out there and live. You don't have to be a fucking criminal. Why do you want to be a criminal? I didn't say anything. You're attacking me. I didn't say that I want to be a criminal. Convicts endured hard work, long hours, poor accommodation and shortages of food which caused them to take off. Many convicts also just wanted to change a pace. What was happening in Australia? So there's just there's just areas where you just don't go. It's full of convicts. No, well there it's a penal colony. Yeah, I understand that. But so we're still like in the transition phase, right? We're still finding our legs as a society. No, well there right now there's settlements, there's settlements and there's penal colonies. Okay, great. All right. So it's like states and a couple of them are basically cells. What? Huh? I don't know what you're talking about. We're in the same boat. Plow ahead, baby. Many. So many of the Bush rangers just couldn't deal with the pure boredom of being on a penal colony. This led them to commit crimes within their penal colony to be sent to a road gang or a penal settlement. Okay. So they're committing crimes to get out of their prison. Interesting choice. Didn't know that was an option. There's a lot of great rules here. A Judge Forbes said, quote, I have known cases in which it appeared that men had committed crimes at Norfolk Island, Norfolk, Norfolk Island, for the mere purpose of being sent to Sydney to be tried and the cause of their desiring to be so sent was to avoid the state of endurance in which they were placed in Norfolk Island. He, geez, this guy. Yeah. I'm not a fan. How about fewer words? Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Come on. How about you get sent to prison for babbling? Hey, fuck you, guy. Several cases occurred in which men at Norfolk Island cut the heads off their fellow prisoners with the ho while at work with the certainty of being detected and the certainty of being executed. They did this without malice and went charge, said it was better to be hung than to live in such hell. What the fuck? What about the guy who's like, hey, man, I was just out here working. Hey, I was like kind of happy. Yeah. Why'd you cut my head off? I kind of had a whole little system figured out. Now I'm going to cut your head off so that I could die. Well, cut your own head off. Yeah, what are you... You know what I mean? Cut your head off. Feels like my head maybe doesn't need to be... Do you know what I'm saying? You feel me, right? There's no need to have a middleman. I like my head. I'm going to cut your head off so that I die. Some men chose something different than horrific murder to escape the monotony. That would be Bush-ranging. Norfolk Island was established to send reconnected prisoners there. It was for double convicts, basically. Many of the most notorious Bush-rangers ended up there. It was the double prisoner prisons that were the worst fatalities ever done it. They did not want to go to the double prison. Yeah. I don't know if the term double prison... Who the fuck would want to even understand that was a thing? Prison to the prison. What? You're going to two prisons. If you get out of that first prison, you're back in prison. This is like inception jail. So there were a lot of violent prisoners there. The flogging happened all the time. The early Bush-rangers knew they would be flogged when they were brought back or returned on their own, as some did when they were tired of life in the Bush. They expected a flogging and, quote, took it like a man. Yeah. Go ahead and beat me back. Flog me, fuckface. The floggings were said to be horrible and given for all sorts of reasons. There were two floggers in Sydney who were considered artists. I'm a Banksy. Oh, I love what you've done there. You really fly on it. Beautiful. Look at the context. Holy shit. Fucking hell. Love the way you did the trees there. Beautiful. Looks so realistic. Thank you. I did that with me flogging things. That's absolutely lovely. With this. I did it with this. The little thing with all the little nuts. You have a beautiful canvas you have. Oh, thank you. That used to be a man. I can't believe that. I'm hanging it on my fucking mantle. They used to flog together one right-handed and the other left-handed. That's super fucked up. Yeah. I mean... Singing songs. Here we go. In the back and la dee da. Well, we got a lot of right-handed floggers. We're looking to fill it out with about six to seven lefties right now. They really fucking flogged the fuck out of him. They both prided themselves on being able to flog a man without breaking the skin. Wait. Okay. They were... They took pride in the fact that they could flog a man without breaking his skin open and making him bleed like a little fucking pussy. Sorry. So they're just trying to break bones without breaking skin essentially? No, they're not breaking bones. They're just basically beating the shit out of him without actually having him pop open. Like God wants. It actually does sound hard to do and I guess you should take some pride in that. If you are a flartist, as I'm calling them, then yeah. I don't know how iPads work, but this one just there. Oh, it got light again. That's important for this. It went dark and then it was like, oh, I'll go light. Mine talks to me. So while no blood was spilled, the back of the man was said to have, quote, puffed up like blown veal. Who's blowing veal? That's what I thought. I'm just going to suck the veal and be ready to go. I fucking blew the shit out of that veal. Look at it. I walked in and my wife was blowing the veal. Hey, that's for dinner. So okay. So they're basically making like hunchbacks via flogging. They're making Quasimodos. Yeah, why not? Not breaking the skin. And guys are puffing up because veal did that or does that? Yep. I think you nailed it. I love how they used to compare things to shit back then. Like now you don't even have, they're just like, oh, he's fucking, he's as sick as a feather. You're like, what the fuck are you talking about? Puffed up like veal. He's as fat as a leaf. I got nothing. I'm out. I don't think I had anything at the beginning. I have nothing now. I was wondering if there was going to be another one and there was sort of. Sort of fair. But this just created a vicious cycle. The brutality would lead to more men fleeing into the bush. The first Bush ranger was John Caesar, a former West Indian Negro slave and petty thief. He escaped into the bush in 1790 with a musket. He survived by hunting and fishing as well as receiving food from sympathetic settlers. Okay. He would be caught and escape again and eventually governor John Hunter offered a reward of five gallons of rum, which caused Caesar to be captured. So what we're saying is that alcohol was better than money back then. That's basically what you're saying. He was running around for all this time escaping and then they went, oh, we'll give you some booze and then fucking did. And then he died and then they got him? Yeah, they got him and shot him. Because they put rum on the table, they're like, sorry buddy, we're not giving you table scraps anymore. We need the rum. Basically. Oh, I know you've been my friend for a long time. Governor Hunter's smart. Yep. That's why he was called governor. And Hunter. And he loved anal. All Australian leaders too. Such a great tradition. Where do you stand on anal? I am for anal. So among farmers, there were many ex-convicts who had served their terms and been granted a ticket of leave. So they were out there and they would often help the Bush rangers. Naturally, due to the fact that they were convicts and prisons were brutal, a more violent Bush ranger emerged and by 1815, Bush rangers were being executed. Jesus. Yeah. It's not a fucking joke. Relax. I didn't say it was a joke. It's not a fucking joke. Yeah, I know it's not a joke. What the fuck did I do to you? After the convict Bush rangers came a new breed. These were men who were born in the Bush and often from poor free settlers. They were skilled horsemen and stronger and healthier than their convict predecessors. This leads us back to young John Fuller. Oh, right. Who now had the nickname Mad Dan Morgan. Does that mean you know who it is or are you just like, fuck, that's a nickname? Like Mad is enough of an addition. You don't need to like change your whole name. Like you've got Mad. I mean, Mad Max wasn't like Kevin Schwartz. He was like Max something, you know? They're like, he's fucking mad. But Mad John Fuller sounds stupid. Mad Dan Morgan's got a fucking rhyme. Mad Dan Morgan? Why not Mad Morgan? There's something. Get the Dan out of there. Well, he's nice to be a little familiar. He seems less, you know, it counters the Mad. By day he's just mild mannered Dan Morgan. And who I am dad? But at night he gets some rum. He gets mad. Then he's Mad Dan Morgan. He left Campbell town for Victoria. He spent a year with his adoptive father, then decided to go visit his mother. To get there, he's gonna go see his mommy again. To get there he stole two horses. Like a horse for the horse to ride? The horse is like, I'm not taking you all the fucking way. He's like, fine, fine. I'll get you a fucking horse. You'll also be riding. You fucking get on you. I just saw a guy ride by on top of two horses. But I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna carry a horse, a horse and you. Fine, we'll get another fucking horse. Fine, five horses, fucking shit. Mom, I'm gonna be late. Creating a totem pole of horses. Just five horses stacked in time. Two horses and Mad Dan's on top of the horse pile. Right to the circus. All right. Okay, so he's got two horses. So he's got two horses. He's got two horses and no plans. On the trip, he narrowly avoided a party of police who were looking for him for stealing horses. How did the, how did the, how, what did the police, he's like, my name's Dan. They're like, well, it's not him. Everything else checks out, but this guy's name's Dan. I'm not Mad Dan, I'm just Dan. He doesn't seem angry. He doesn't. Mild tempered. He went on to try his luck at the Castle Main Goldfields, but that didn't pan out. Thank you. Don't pander over gold. Somewhere. That's what we call a horse on a horse. In 1854, he was back again in New South Wales, this time under the name John Smith. What is he doing? I'm crazy John Smith now. Used to be Mad Don Morgan. I'm coming with the most ordinary name of all time. John Smith. John Smith, I'm a common motherfucker. He became a horse and a cattle wrestler and was able to drive them long distances and then sell them. He had a reputation of being a heavy drinker and having a violent temper. So weird. Poor cattle. You don't, you just, you just don't expect that from a guy who was raised by Irish people. No. Nope. Not my Mad Dan or John or whatever the fuck. At some point he drifted into Victoria. It was in Victoria in the Castle Main district that he first came into open conflict with the law. He stuck up two men. Now I kept running into this term stuck up and I just thought, I just thought it meant like you put your hands up. Stick them up. But no, here, here apparently, back then apparently meant you would, you would rob them and then tie them to a tree and leave them. Much more complicated. He did that to two guys? Yep. Was just with his hands? Like how did, like? No, he tied them up with his feet. No, but how do you get? How do you get two men? Well, you have a gun and they don't. You do have a gun. No, he did. He did it with his eyes. I didn't know he had a gun. Well, when we say stick them up, I mean, I'm thinking he had a gun and then when we say sticking them up means he ties them to a tree, the gun pops in my imagination. It just means he, he doesn't just say, give me your money. He then ties them up and leaves them in a perilous situation. So it's just an extra phase of the stick up. Extra, extra. It's going to be a long night. His tracks were quickly picked up and he was pursued and overtaken. He put up a desperate resistance boot, was finally taken into custody. He was charged with highway robbery and convicted. The sentence was 12 years. In 1860, after six years on the prison ship, success. The most fucked up name of a prison ship of all time. But it's great if your son is in prison because then you could just be like, oh, he's on success. He's on success. I know. He's on success. Nope. Nope. He's in. He's deep. He's deep in success. He's deep in success. He won't leave success. Can't. Go ahead. Okay. Now this, this tail has a lot of names and I'm going to get most of them wrong and we're about to hit a fucking doozy. He was released for good behavior and given leave to go to the Yakin Dada district. What? I came close, right? Yeah. Yakin Danda. Yeah. That's a fucked up name. You should have free range to say that one however the fuck you want. Yeah. Yaki. Well, I take that back. But he failed the report in that Yakin Danda and was named a quote, prisoner of the crown illegally at large. Okay. I thought you were going to say prisoner of the year just because it felt like, it's not like we're ahead of there. And he didn't come back, but he's pretty fucking great. Hey, who's going to accept the award for him? There's a horse that could. The one that's on top of that other horse. No, no. Not that one. The third one. There's actually a mini pony underneath out of him. Fucking tired he is. From that point forward, he lived a life of what was called vicious crimes. He had several aliases. Oh, I can't wait. Bob Jones. Bill the native? Bill the native. Dude, he's like a comic in the 80s. Down the river Jack? He's coming up with these, right? There's no way. When he's drunk, yeah. When he's shit faced. Going to be down the river Jack. I'm going to be their shit faced Carl. Oh my God, he has feet. Another one was Jack Smith, which we've heard. Just a fucking clean, beautiful name. He was also, of course, Dan Morgan and also terror of the riverina. He really, I'm not saying he needs like a partner in crime, but he does need a writing partner. Like somebody to just be like, it's good, let's just workshop that a little bit more because I don't know if that's final. Next time Morgan was heard of was in the Avoka district. Keep going Dave. He was back there stealing cattle. Then he was said to be in the Albury taking horses. Fuck. Oldbury. It's a slippery slope with Dave. Horses were Morgan's thing. He was said to be one of the most accomplished and daring horsemen. For some time he went about stealing them without any interference from police. I don't know. Because he kept changing his name. They're like, fuck, we're just getting close to Ma Don. Oh, I got you. I'm Jimmy Tables. What was the one down the river Jack? Yep, down the river Jack. Up the river Tony as well. I went the wrong way you see. The lateral swim in Kevin. Going against the currents John. Oh, fuck a waterfall Robert. So the police were busy with the Hall and Gilbert gang. The police were looking for nine people. And there's one. There's a fucking pack of them. They're busy with the Hall and Gilbert gang. And they assumed his crimes were being done by the gang. But then it became apparent he was not with the gang. And so they began to hunt Morgan down. In the middle of 1983 a police party was formed. 1893. Did I say 1983? 1983. That's when they formed the party to go after. That'd be great. All right, let's get this fucker. So he lived for a hundred more years. I'd been reading a history book and I've noticed no one ever caught this gentleman. So let's go get him. Really really old Jay. I'm the back Andy. We're going after... My knees hurt when there's a storm about Adam. We're going after Stroke Steve. Why what's left of him? He moves in circles. In 1893 a police party was formed to arrest Morgan. He spent most of his Bushman career working alone. But for a bit around this time he was partnered up with a companion named German Bill. From Austria. So he does have a buddy. Yeah he got a buddy. German Bill. He's like, my work on the name Bill, that's pretty basic. No it's a good name. No no you gotta punch it up. Fake name, crazy shit before it. No it's a good name. I'm from Sweden, it's a good name. And my name is Sven so I say I'm German Bill. Where are you from again Bill? I'm from Sweden. Sweden, Italy, right? Yeah, I like spicy meatballs. I like a spiciest Swedish meatballs. In August a party of police was organized by a volunteer named Henry Bayless and they tracked them for several days. Bayless was said to be one of the most fearless men in Australia. The police party arrived at their... Whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa! Party foul. Whoa! During the chase? Let's kick a bottle over Barry. Cool. Sorry kicked over a bottle. So Bayless was one of the most fearless men in Australia. The police arrived at their camp on the 22nd at German Bill and Dan Morgan's camp. There they found a hut made out of bark and sticks but Morgan and Bill were not inside. So they waited. The plan was to wait until they came inside and then they would arrest them so they went in the hut. Wait the cops went in the hut? Yep they went in the hut. To wait for them. That's so stupid. What do you think it's a good plan? I don't know how this ends probably with a murder but very crazy plan. Come on boys everybody in the hut. Everyone get in the hut. I don't have anymore. Is there... that's all I have so far. I know when he comes in we're all going to yell surprise! Surprise police party! The in the hut gang. So when they heard footsteps coming. Hide hide no don't hide. Sorry what's happening? One of the police party couldn't help himself and blindly shot out of the hut. Who's the rookie? I don't know but they could not foresee what would happen because you're stuck in a hut. Yeah but still you've come this far you've waited in a hut. You just started shooting through it? Then everyone started shooting. Smart smart that's the way to teach him. A long shootout ensued. Morgan and German Bill began to find their position extremely grave so Morgan shot Bill. What? It's not going well fuck you cunt. Why? I'm with you police. We're the next day's criminals. I got German Bill boys. He then made his escape while the police focused... But he didn't need white people because they focused on German Bill? Yeah because then he was laying there and they could capture him so while they focused on him... You can capture him later. It's easy to capture a dead guy. Chase up the hill Clark. During the shootout Henry Bayless was severely wounded but recovered. Later that same day a shepherd was... So Morgan got away. Right of course. And then later on that same day a shepherd was sitting on a log feeding his dog when Morgan wrote up... Is this a poem? When all of a sudden a tremendous fog. And Morgan just wrote up and shot him in the head. He must have been mad about the shootout. And he saw this guy or maybe he ate a sheep or he didn't like dogs. Or just people sitting on a log. You know the dog just ate the rest of the food out of the dude's hand right away. Oh the dog was like... Everything's coming up me. Next Mad Morgan teamed up with three other Bush Rangers. Around Christmas they watched a road near... Fuck here we go. They watched a road near Narrandera. I disagree. Kind of with Dave on this one gang. Looking to rob wealthy people who were traveling to Melbourne. While they waited Morgan stopped a two wheeled cart being driven by an ox. The driver... Okay for a second it didn't feel like there was a driver. It could have just felt like it was Animal Farm. Morning how are ya? Interesting. Aha. Really? That's fascinating. And he hasn't come home? That's crazy. I'm actually an orphan. Yeah well I was actually adopted by another man. My father was a vegetable salesman. I don't want to bore you with the whole detail. I just... Anyway. Yeah as long as you're good. As long as you're good. The driver John Cole was transporting cheese. There were several kinds of cheese. Morgan said he would quote like a bit. And Cole... Give him the cheese. Give him all the fucking cheese. Cole told him to take the lot. Smart yes. Please tell me he doesn't shoot this dude in the fucking head. Morgan replied the fucking traps would risk their necks climbing over the area railings for a leg of mutton. I don't know what I'd do for a whole cheese but this lump's good enough for me. None of that makes sense. That dude is like cool then just that piece. Please get the fuck out of here. Take what you want. I don't know what the traps are. So I just know about cheese and being scared. Morgan then told Cole that the police generally were a sour milk lot. I made a dairy joke there. Over the next few months Morgan robbed various places and people between Wagga Wagga and Waga Waga. Sure. There's another way to say that. Waga Waga. Bullshit. It's ridiculous anyway. It's completely insane. That's like being like you mispronounce it. Actually more like. Waga Waga. Waga Waga. As the mayor of Wagga Wagga I love anal. And I like to go. Oh man. That's a crazy fucking name for a place you guys. So he was robbing people between Wagga Wagga and. And Miga Maga. And Denilquin. What. Close enough. Yeah. Yeah. That guy. Close enough. On April 16th 1864 George Elliott showed up in Denilquin with a bunch of horses for sale. What? Fuck you with your hand over your fucking face. You tried to cover up that you laughed at it because you knew he'd get fucking pissed. Dave was like. Dave was like what bitch? What did you say motherfucker? So George Elliott shows up with a bunch of horses. And the local police sergeant thought something was up and he interrogated Elliott. After a while Elliott admitted that Morgan had robbed him of 127 pounds and a horse on the road between Narrandera and Geryldery. Close enough. Thanks a lot. I don't know what's wrong with this side of the room. They're still mad about Perth. They'll never get over that it's on the other side of the country now. It's the grieving phase. Now that he was traveling back by the same route he wanted to be rid of the horses because they would just be stolen again. And he didn't want to tell police what had happened because he might meet up with Morgan once more. So in June two members of the police force Sergeant McGinnity and Officer Churchley were riding on the road to Tumba Rumba. We've already done a tub thumping joke on that. When they passed a man on horseback McGinnity casually said good day. As they passed the man then looked at them and said oh you're one of them fucking wretches looking out for bushrangers are you? He then pulled out his gun turned and shot McGinnity through the breast. He had breasts? Big old titties. He really doesn't pull fucking punches. Nope. So McGinnity was dead. McGinnity's horse bolted into the bush and Morgan chased after it. The other cop. He's chasing horses? Well there's a dead guy on a horse so that's a free horse. Oh the guy's still on the horse. Yeah the body. Okay that helps the chase because the horse is like what should I do dude? We all good up there? What's going on? Feels like you really lack other controls. Are you napping bro? Fuck man. I'm gonna get on this horse and get the fuck out of here. They pass an ox who's like morning. The other the other cop Churchley just took off. He would later. That's good detective work right there. Yeah. He would later say his horse also bolted because of the shots but then they found out that that's bullshit. That's it. He was later fired. That's totally the move I'd pull. I wanted to help but then the horse also took off. God damn it. You know what happened was I saw him shoot my partner and I just went I'm gonna go away. That's the day I retired from the force. A paper at the time reported quote it is not explained how the thing happened but it would appear either that the horse bolted or that the constable and the animal went off together. That's putting too much on the animal in this like the animal will do whatever. The animal wasn't like I say we roll. Hey he looks split up. He just shot that dude in the titties. We get to get the fuck out of here. Oh God the titty shooters back. Oh no he's shooting men with breasts. This is like gym class. When Churchley returned with reinforcements they found McGinnity's hat on the road marking where the body was so it could be found. So that's nice. Yeah real sweet. After the shooting an advertisement appeared in the Albury. Albury? Sure banner. Quote challenge to Morgan. John Smith is willing to meet Morgan. Now here's what's fucked up is he used his other alias to challenge Morgan. John Smith is willing to meet Morgan the murderer either by day or night single handed on number 76 free selection Garogary and Howlung Roads. It turns out Morgan read the banner which he stole from people. No word on whether or not he took up the challenge. But some guy challenged him to a street fight. Himself. That's what I think. That's amazing. Very soon after the shootout Morgan showed up on a Sunday afternoon at Round Hill Station. He had a revolver in each hand and he corralled all the men about 20 into the carpenter's shop. He then told the owner Mr. Watson he took the owner Mr. Watson out and brought him over to the shop. He asked whether or not the men had enough rations. If they haven't they've only got to say so and they'll get more said Watson. I'm a good man. Morgan replied well I'm Dan Morgan I just want to know and you'd better give them a cobbler to drink. Okay that makes more sense. What's wrong with your shoes? You're not talking about a copy of the Adam Sandler movie are you? I don't want that. Will you shoot me instead? We all would rather that. Watson said he had no problem giving the men a cobbler and sent a messenger to get some. He came back with four bottles of liquor and each man was given some in a metal cup. The men laughed and enjoyed themselves. Feeling a bit casual now one of the men asked Morgan if he had stolen the stirrup irons from Mr. Johnson. Bad move. He's getting weighed. He's like did you steal those stirrups? Sorry. Morgan whipped his pistol out cursing and shot into the room. Watson was shot through the hand. The man ran out and Morgan followed them yelling you fucking wretches do you want to give me away? He shot them. Yeah yeah they're they're gonna give you away bro. Walk out of there shooting them. Get them drunk and then shoot at them. He shot several times until a man named John McLean fell wounded. The rest of the men were now hiding behind trees. Morgan put McLean on his horse and led it back to the house. McLean was taken in and cared for by some women there. Morgan told the station hand to go fetch a doctor. Okay which was a drink. So the guy. No a doctor. Fuck this is bad. So the guy the guy goes off to get a doctor. But after the man left to get the doctor Morgan started thinking about his plan and he started to think the man he sent to get the doctor would actually bring back the police. So he jumped on his horse and chased after the man and then shot him. Quick addendum. Change of plans. I'm going to kill you. That guy's slowing down. I'm going to kill you for trying to get a doctor. Wait what? What's happening? New plan. I'm going to kill you. So he killed the guy and then he went off into the bush. You know he has ideas and sometimes they're not great. Yeah good plans. Back at the station they then discovered another man who had been shot and was laying in the carpenter's shop. His name was John Harriet and he was the son of a well known family. His leg had been broken by the bullet. McLean was kept at the house and after three days died. Sound effect wasn't fun. I think that's the noise he made when he went. He's dead officially you heard the noise. Now we know. Waka waka. Waka waka. Oh he's dead. We should name a town that. Nah that's silly. Back at the station they then discovered, oh I already did that, at an inquest later Stockman reported that Morgan called the station two days after the attack to see how McLean was doing. What? Dude there's no plan. So he just shows up and he goes how's the guy I shot doing? Sorry what is going on right now? Just checking in. Is he okay? No. Why? You shot him. I'm just checking in. Why are you here? Say hi. I like to say hi to people I shot. Will you give him this card? Hard to find an appropriate one but I found one finally. So you shot a guy. Yeah it's a sign below the sky Bob. He then sat beside McLean's bed for several hours. What? I'm so broken up about this. How did this happen? If we ever find the motherfucker who put you in this bed so help me God. Oh fuck. Imagine how McLean was doing. Yeah he was like. I'm here. You know he was just like play it fucking cool. Oh good. Oh good. I was hoping you would come here. I'm okay. What the fuck? Yeah. Oh yeah comfort me for sure. Help yourself. Hey what the fuck? A verdict of willful murder. At the same time a party of police and civilian volunteers were searching. I love how it's all a party of police. They were searching the area for him and the whole time he was in the place he committed the crime. Maybe the most genius thing to do. Nobody thought he'd go back and sit by the guy's bed. They were just like let's hide in the hut. A verdict of willful murder was returned against Morgan on June 23rd. The reward for. It's already inferred by murder that it's willful. The reward for his capture dead or alive was increased from 500 pounds to a thousand pounds. Morgan's reputation was surging. A man walked into a bar called the Five Mile Creek near Boogalong. Boogalong. Boogalong. He ordered a couple. You guys get to pick which ones. Choose your own. He ordered a cobbler of brandy. Then he asked for another. But the bartender said he'd have to pay for the first to get another. The man then said be careful what you do. I'm Dan Morgan. And he took out a pistol. The bartender ran from behind the bar and jumped out the window. Such a great move. Hardest guy in the whole story. It's probably a door that was closed but still fucking. I mean. It's a gun in your face. Jumped out the window. And it was on the third story. So. Morgan walked to the window and watched him run off. But the bartender just ran around to the back of the building and he crept back in. Jesus dude's dead. Oh no. He crept back to the window he had jumped out of and saw Morgan's pistol sitting on the window sill. Oh boy. So he grabbed it and went back into the bar. There he found Morgan helping himself to a bottle. Strangely Morgan was easily secured at gunpoint and handed over to police. They then determined he was not Morgan but just a fiddler. Get back on the roof. That's amazing. Yeah he was a fiddler. We got him. We got our guy. God damn it. It's just a lying fiddler. Would you like to hear a tune? No all one. I love a good hymn. Yeah he was just a fiddler who traveled around playing for a living and he was in prison for a few months for that. He might be the best guy in the store. The fiddler. Go ahead. Here we go. Get ready to get mad. Morgan next hit. Yereby station. Yeah fuck yeah. He tied up the overseer, two bushmen and a driver. Then he took the keys from the store and helped himself to supplies. He also gave gin and tobacco to the men he tied up. Here we go. Oh boy. The men had come and more men came in and each one he tied up. Now there were several there and they were starting to get drunk. Sorry. He's tying these men up and then he's getting them drunk and giving them tobacco. But they can't use their hands. Well I'm sure they might be able to use their hands. So he tied them up so that they can use their hands. And he's just letting them get shit faced and smoke. Right? It's a Morgan party. Sure. Better than a police party. So now they're drunk and they start to get loud which irritated Morgan. This is a hard dude to predict. Fucking up is down. He's visiting people, he's fucking killing, he's getting people drunk while they're tied up and being upset that they're drunk. He told them to shut up but they kept at it. Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up means you're fucking drunk! You with the breast, you're first. He then went and got the station brand. It was a drink. And he put it in the fire. Jesus. Party's over. Talk about sobering up. You're like, oh you know I'm actually not, I should shut the fuck up. You're totally right. I was just saying to the other guys, we should all shut the fuck up. He said that if they kept being loud he would brand their faces. I mean, that's product placement. That's marketing. He's a hard guy to party with. It suddenly became very quiet. And he eventually wrote off without branding anyone. Which is amazing. Well, it's great. Glad. Some station overseers ordered that when Morgan shut up he was to be given whatever he wanted and when he did not come food would be taken out into the bush and left for him. He's Santa? So people are just that in fear that they're just like, just leave food in case he's coming. He's crazy. Yeah, they just like put food out in the woods. Just put some food in a fucking tree. Stations were 25 to 50 miles apart and had very few employees. There were not many police around to deal with men like Morgan. It was a time when an upset Bushman could set the grass on fire and it would burn hundreds of square miles. So it's California. Or else. We live in the bush. Yeah. So looking at the grand scheme of things, giving away some food and supplies was not such a big deal. Those who did give him food and supplies definitely fared better than those who didn't. You'd think it'd be the opposite with this dude. He'd be like, food? The fuck are you giving me food for? Burn up! To people who don't like me, you can live. What am I a fucking charity case? What? You said I'm fucking fat. That's what it is. Not fat, fat Danny Morgan. Fucking dead. Fat Frank's the fat one. I'm the mad guy. Also, my name used to be Fat Frank. Last summer I got into chocolate a bit too much. Then I lost it and I was Chubby, Chubby Clark. Then I was Get Everyone Drunk Jerry. Then I was Brendan Bob. I shot Watson in the hand Jeffries. My specific name. That is my favorite one because it's long as fuck. Morgan went to a cattle station and asked to see the overseer. His wife said he wasn't there. It was just her and the children. Morgan said that was too bad because he'd come all this way to shoot her husband. Oh, that's a fucking shame. What time will he be back for me to kill him? When do you expect him roughly? Turns out the overseer was a bit too chummy with the police. Morgan then said he wanted a specific amount of money. I want 47 pounds and 38 cents. And a piece of cheese. Not the whole fucking lot. The whole thing is... How dare you. I'm not your dad. You know, I had a conversation with an ox once. The only person who ever got me was that ox. God, I miss him. Him and the ox are writing letters. Ox, hey. I hope you're fucking well. Oh, look. Another letter from oxy. Looks like he's in the room with me. Oh, gosh. That's terrible to hear. His spirit will not be broken, this ox. Resilient he is. Signed by... You're my best friend. The woman said there was no money at the station. Morgan did not believe her. So he then asked her to boil some eggs. I love how you're taking a sip there. Just let everyone be like, what the fuck? All right, eggs. You don't have any money. Put some eggs on. You fucking put some eggs on, woman. Hard boiled. Hard boiled them, God damn it. Why, Morgan? I want egg at Soldier's. They don't kill me egg Ernie for nothing. I mean, they do. When I'm eating the eggs. When I'm not eating the eggs, I'm mad at Morgan. But when I got a plate of eggs in front of me, I'm egg Ernie. Last Monday I was macaroni Michael. I had a fucking beautiful plate of macaroni. Fucking delicious. Oh fuck. I mean, we have beaten the nickname game. I know, but it still keeps making me laugh. We are flogging the nickname. Flogging it like veal. Puffed up. Said veal flogging Tommy. I'm beating down the nicknames. They call me beater of the nickname Nick. Hammer this game into the ground, Harry. Don't forget jam jars are only nine dollars. At some point this will get old Oliver. Eggs were the only thing that Morgan would eat there because he said there was too much strychnine and arsenic around. I'm not a scientist. You can't eat anything but eggs when there's chemicals around, stupid. They're clean. They come out of the chickens asshole. They're pure. That's what makes things pure. Why am I a pirate? I don't know what's happened to you lately. Ever since you've been talking to that ox. Where's me parrot? When the eggs were done, he looked at them carefully and passed on the ones that had cracks in the shells. I'm so him with hard boiled eggs like that. I know, right? Yeah, you're just like, I don't want the weird ones. Yeah. So you have something in common. It's nice to find in the story. That's not the only thing. I always have a good ox buddy. Then he made, so he ate the good ones and then he made up a fire until it was huge. He asked the woman again for the money and she said, it's not here. So he grabbed her and made her sit on the burning logs. She should have said yes. Was there money there? Nope. He held her until her clothes caught on fire. Then he let her get up and he ran over, grabbed a bucket of water and put out her burning clothes. She was very burned. Then he rode off and said he'd be back. I'm coming back. No, don't. You fucking stinky burned ass. That's terrible. Jesus. Well, I mean, you know, he's mad. He's mad. Are you devil's advocating lighting a woman on fire? I'm just saying it's okay to have empathy for Matt Dan Morgan as well. He wanted something and he didn't get it. Then some of the eggs were cracked. Yeah, I guess she did deserve to be lit on fire. I can't believe you sold me so easy, but yeah, you're right. What's she doing? I made some good... Give him the money that's not there. I made some good points. He continued committing crimes and then he turned up at Doodle, Kumal station, the site, right? Yeah. Some guy just went, what? Doodle Kumal station? The side of the township of Henty. Nah, it's Henty. There Sergeant Smith and a party of police were camped in a tent. Of course. We're waiting on a guy who lives here. I'm Irish too. It was another police party who were looking for Morgan. They put up the tent and we're all inside with a candle burning. You guys are leading me on that one. The candle caused their shadows to be cast on the side of the tent. They screamed, we are police. We are police. We're looking for Morgan. We're looking for Morgan. I'm just picturing in Home Alone when he makes all the fake people to make it look like his house is full through the curtain. Michael Jordan's just on a train rotating around. That did look real though, didn't it? If you're one of the criminals, you're like, well that guy's moving in a circular pattern over and over again. He's for real. Michael Jordan's in there. Okay, so. So they're dead for sure. Of course shots were fired into the tent and Smith was hit, but they still all ran out and fired their guns into the darkness. Smith was shot twice and he fainted. He was taken to Doodle Kumo Station and a doctor was summoned and then he died. It's called Doodle? It's D-O-O-D-A-L. Doodle? Yeah, Doodle. That's what I'd go with. Doodle. While the patient's dying, the doctor's just like, what did he do for fun? Do you like skateboarding? What do you think of that? Looks just like him, doesn't it? Yeah, he's dead. All right, guys. Bring him in here. I'm gonna draw him. I'm afraid if I don't draw this patient in the next two to three hours, he may, well he's dead, but I just have something later. It was later determined that Morgan had fired the shots and that he had been waiting around to ambush the police. Even though police were killed by Dan Morgan, they were being criticized for not catching him. The local paper wrote on December 14th, 1864, quote, last Sunday was another Morgan day in the Albury district. And while our police are marrying and giving in marriage, dancing, fighting, getting and bestowing broken heads over wedding festivities in town. I mean, what happened? He's fucking pissed. I mean, what happened at this fucking wedding? They came to his wedding and had too much, they had sex with the bride. Yeah. And they clearly went to this wedding, danced, fought and just kicked the shit out of people. Had a good fucking time, dude. It's a wedding. They did the limbo. Uh, and uh. Good call guys. You guys were like, what's going on? It's the difference between doing these live. You're like, I felt that one. All right, keep moving. More through Gary. You got this. So in obtaining notoriety in our police court reports, the murder and villain Morgan rules rampant. The paper then listed a long report of what Morgan had been doing on the previous Sunday. Morgan had got to a camp of a road contractor named Adams in Kiyamba. He's Kiyamba. That way you're going to pronounce the letter. He stuck up the party, which included a few Chinese gentlemen. Okay. They were all told to strip naked. But one sounds like a game show in China. But one didn't understand what he was supposed to do. Well, the others were getting naked. Follow their fucking lead, bro. He hesitated and apparently as quoted in the paper said, no savey. Two E's. Yeah. Also Australian newspapers at the time had the two E typewriter. No savey. So Morgan. What's happening right now? Do you remember when we did an episode where we talked about how the newspapers had two E's to make fun of Chinese people? Are you here with me? I want to say yeah. Like I told you, you could redo a dollop on me at some point. And it'd be 40 minutes in and I'd be like, wait, fuck you, dude. Okay so Morgan shot the Chinese guy in the shoulder. Morgan then made the men cook him some meat and he stayed for a while and had a little dinner. When he left, he forced. He's just making people cook for him. He just didn't know how to cook. That's where this came from. Poor little guy. When he left, he forced four of the men who had horses to go with him. They rode to Little Billabong. There he held up a couple of buggies pretending like the guys were with him in fellow outlaws. Right. Okay. And they're naked at this point? I bet their clothes are back. Yeah. He just got him naked while they cooked and then got him to put their clothes on and then they were a gang. Okay. I always like to see Chinese dick while I eat meat. Can't fault him. I'm the same way. That's why I gave it up. It's good for digestion. All right. Well get naked and cook me fucking meat. You heard me. Don't say no cookie either. He used the four guys to help him block a road forcing buggies to stop. This had a larger objective which was to cause the mail coach to stop so he could rob it. And while the men sat there waiting for the mail coach to come, Morgan talked about all of his misdeeds. He said he had watched Sergeant Smith and his party for five days so that he could be positive he was shooting the right man. Finally the mail coach came and he robbed it. There wasn't much there and Morgan then cut the telegraph wire. He went to nearby Williams Station and took a horse and a saddle. He also said that while he was in the area that he would shoot three specific men, quote, no matter what risk it cost him. The next day he shot Mr. McKenzie, Mr. McLaren and Sergeant Carroll. Mr. McLaren was said to have always been ready for Morgan but it didn't matter. Well that is not true. Who said that was a lie? He was always ready for him. Well, no. Always ready but one day McLaren. And it's a shitty nickname because I'm dead so I can't even use it. In March Morgan held up a station at Mohunga. He as usual put all the men in a room and ordered the overseer Mr. Ram to get some rum. Yep, of course. Get him drunk, get threatened to brand him. We've learned this one. The rum was passed around and then Morgan asked one of the men to play a concertina he was holding. It's like an accordion. Jesus, what is it? I think he's just lonely. I really, like he maybe just wasn't a hug. Like he's tying people up and making them drink rum and have a party. And then he just, you know, then he wants the... I don't want money, I want friends. He really does. Alright, now get naked and cook me meat. There's no artistic around so you can cook it. The rum was passed around and then Morgan asked one of the men, oh right, to play the concertina. He did. Now it was a party. Morgan then told the overseer to dance. But at some point I feel like he's going to get upset with the party again. He watched and applauded once in a while but when the man stopped dancing, Morgan raised his pistol and said, once more please. You dance very nicely. What? So fucking bored that he's like, you dance nice. One more please. One more dance for daddy. Just dance for daddy. You know I... I like clothes... I can't eat meat anymore unless I see a Chinese penis. I like clothes, dancing and naked cooking. That's my life. You ever put a woman on a fire? Who's with me boys? He made Mr. Rand dance until midnight when he was finally allowed to stop. Well that was a good time, right? Well it's tomorrow. During this entire robbery he kept talking about the police. He said the Victorian police had been blathering that they would catch him if he crossed the border. Morgan said he would soon show them that they weren't any smarter than the New South Wales police who were frightened of him. He took a horse and supplies in the morning and left. A Beechworth paper said after hearing what Morgan had talked about, he challenged him to cross the Murray and said if he did he'd be dead within 48 hours. Morgan accepted the challenge. And I think he's gonna be fine. He apparently talked about the challenge a lot and said he would go to Victoria and take the flashness out of the Victorian police and the band people. Yeah, they're flashy. They're fucking way too flashy with their... A little too flashy for my liking. Girl. Thanks girl. But he was still on New South Wales wreaking havoc. Morgan was also a huge fan of arson. So many passions. I mean... Many of the places he robbed were then burned. He spent most of his time in the Albury district but expanded his business to the coast. He robbed the mail coach between... Expanded his business. It's a good business model. You know what? It's time to break her open a little bit and see what my business can do. I've got a mouth. You know I incorporated last month. I had better for my taxes. It's just way better. He robbed the mail coach between Okova and Young repeatedly. Once it had a few Chinese passengers inside. What? There we go. Someone was like mailing Chinese people? I've only got a bit of jerky but get your pants down. And make jerky. Toys. While they were being searched for money, one of them made a run for it. The man ran, dropped on his hands and knees and tried to climb into a hollow log. He'll never find me here. Here, this will be easier for you. He's not Irish. They're all Irish to me. Well Morgan's been raised by Irish people. Yeah but the Chinese guy climbing in the log is. I ain't going into this log. That's what he does when he's in there. He's like, I'm out of some Irish. Please. Morgan just walked up and shot him in the back. Shot him in the back. Killed him, okay for sure. Another one dead. He's starting to not even care anymore about how many people are fucking dying. It's like Terminator. Morgan finally decided to take Victoria upon its challenge. In early April 1865 he crossed the Murray River and started raiding stations. He stuck up a Mr. McKinnon station on the Little River. He then crossed King River and set fire to Barnes and the granary of a man named Evans for quote having shot my finger off. Is that true? Yeah he was missing the tip of his finger. So apparently it was Evans. So he burned down his Barnes and his granary. That all seems like fine. That's the most justifiable one I think we've heard. Still fucked up but. But yeah. Everyone's on Morgan's side there. That's the tip. Just looking at his finger. Just looking at his finger. I told you we'd get finches. Morgan continued robbing many carriers on the road between Wangaratta and Barrella. You're giving up right? Yeah. On the evening of the 8th he arrived at Pachelba station which was owned by two men McPherson and Rutherford. Morgan rode up and knocked on McPherson's door. McPherson's son opened it and found the Bush ranger holding a pistol. He backed the kid up and ordered everyone in the house to come into the room. He lined them up along the wall of the dining room. One of the maids said she didn't believe he was serious and refused to stand against the wall quote like a child. What? What does she mean? She doesn't think he's serious? She's probably one of those asshole nurses. She's a maid. Or a maid who's from England and she's like I'm not going to look at the boat. She's like Mary Poppins. We don't have time. Some of the children have sore throats. Just a spoonful of killer. Bang. Oh fuck. He shot me. Spoonful of sugar? No I won't do shit. My gut shot. Took that far. Morgan pointed his gun at her and said my young lady do you know who I am? No she replied. Well I'm Morgan will you take your place? She pouted but decided to look at the wall instead of being murdered. Fine. I'm going to do it but I'm not going to like it. Happy about it. Morgan then put two. I still don't believe you. Prove it. Prove that you're threatening me. Morgan then put two guns on the table and sat down. He said he hadn't slept for three nights and wanted to return to New South Wales tomorrow for a long nap. I can't sleep in Victoria. Fuck. And by the way a long nap is sleeping. If you're tired you don't go hold up a bunch of people you go sleep. You go sleep. I guess I'm going to rob this place first. Yeah no it's not like somebody made an appointment. I'll be pissed if I don't fucking hold them up. I'm fucking exhausted. I've got to be there between three to six on Tuesday. It's been three days I've been doing poppers for three days. It's crazy. He then asked a servant to make him some tea and let her leave the room. After finding out McPherson's wife played piano he asked her to play. Oh boy get ready to play till fucking 1 a.m. lady. This is not a normal hostage situation you're dealing with. You get naked make eggs. You play the piano. You get in the fireplace. I'll explain in a minute. Get me some meat that you have a little Chinese fella. I made a Chinese fella. A smaller come on. A smaller man. Oh boy. She said certainly Mr. Morgan and he said just call me Morgan. He didn't like being mistered he called it. This dude's got crazy ass rules. The party went on all night. I love that it's a party. And it's not exactly it's not a party. Nobody was there by their own will. It's his party. His party went all night. Are you having a good time? The hostage situation went all night. This is a great fucking party. Are you having a good time? Yes. This is great. Glad we planned this and did it. Morgan chatted the night away and he became. Chatted like to himself basically. He's fucking a crazy lonely guy who never talks to anybody. You know when you meet that old lady in a store and she starts talking to you and you're like oh god. Yeah like you say how are you to the wrong person. That's who he is. He comes in and he's like can I ever tell you that I was six. No we've just met. How you doing today? Well I'm a little down honestly. Oh god here we fucking go. You know I've shot nine people and I feel weird. Well I was a boy on a vegetable cart a while ago. So he became so comfortable that he didn't notice when the maid slipped out. She went straight to Mr. Rutherford's house a quarter of a mile away and told him what was going on. Then she ran back and slipped back into the house so Morgan never noticed. She must have been freaking the fuck out. I wouldn't have come back. Nope. I told the dude keep running. Morgan well Morgan chatted away he told them his life story. He was born in Appen his parents were still living etc. Meanwhile the police. You know mom's always been distant. Now that I think about it. I mean more so than a normal gypsy woman. I had two dads gonna write a book about that maybe. Maybe turn it into a terrible TV show at some point. We had a show called My Two Dads. Yeah it's about Morgan. Meanwhile the police are on their way and the locals were surrounding the house with guns and hiding behind bushes and walls. Morning came Morgan had a nice breakfast. Like Fiercen offered Morgan some whiskey but he said he rarely drank. You know it's not my thing. I don't like to drink I just like to make other people do it around me. I'm gonna watch you drink and that's how I get high. But he didn't want to seem rude so he took half a glass. I don't want to be rude it's 9am I'll have a glass. I don't normally drink but I'll have one. No it's it's morning so okay. Alright fine. Ten thirty somewhere right? I'm having the best time. You guys are my best fucking friends. You feel the same way right? We're having the best time. That's what I thought. We're all having a really great party. Thanks for coming. Did I ever tell you about my friend Bob the Ox? We did some cray. Me and the Ox once. Me and Oxie. Oh look out. Look out ladies. Oxie and Morgan are up. Quite the team we were. He was quite the wing cow. He would always set you up and back off. Because the women love an ox and they'll come over with one in a bar and they'll go it's that's an ox and then you can chat them up and Bob will go away. Plus if they like white Russians forget about it. You're talking about the drink or the? The drink sorry I should be clear. Which has milk in it. So he finished his glass. Religious man. He finished his glass of whiskey then he went into a bedroom and washed his hands and face and combed his hair. I think he thinks he's a house guest. Time to look presentable. Where's my room? While he did this one of the servants brought coffee to all the men surrounding the house outside. Like the servants misguided in this situation. Here you go boys this is terrific. Terrific coffee. No it's not Sydney coffee it's Melbourne. So they get so fucking weird about their coffee don't they? One nap or two. One nap or two. How many laps would you press? I'll have to go get some more sugar. Stay points. We've got no we've got a lot of time he's combing his hair. It's gonna be a couple hours. What's a latte? What's a latte? Morgan finished grooming himself and stepped out onto the veranda. He told Macpherson he wanted a horse. Macpherson and his son walked to get one and a saddle. Morgan started to follow them. At this point the police and volunteers had the place well surrounded. But they were also like so jittery they're like we've had a lot of coffee. I gotta eat something my stomach fucking hurts. I've got to shit. Excuse me? He got he got away because we all had to shit from the coffee. Oh fuck there he goes. Everybody's shitting. Get in the tent get in the tent. Hide. Wait. So any man who had a shot was supposed to take a shot. A station hand named John Wendland took the first shot from behind a bush hitting Morgan in the back of the shoulder shattering his spine and then passing through his lungs. Jesus that's a good shot. Yeah. Yeah. He fell and lay on the ground. George Rutherford the other owner approached Morgan as he lay on the ground. I conversed with him after he was shot. He said he did not know me. I asked him if he knew Mr. Warby. He said yes. I asked him if he knew Colby. He said no. I asked him if his real name was Morgan or Moran and he said no. I actually have some other names. Your boys might want to take a seat. Right now I'm collapsed lung Larry. I might see the light at the end of the tunnel Tom. My God I feel the cold embrace of death Danny. Morgan then said why did they not give me a chance? Why did they not challenge me? What is this? I'm a house guest. Don't you know how killing people works? You hang out with them for a day or two. You wine and dine them. Then you pull out your gun and you go are you ready? Yeah you let them know. The fuck? Again I asked him his real name Morgan or Moran and he said no. It's good question time isn't it? Let's go with yes or no's. For a long time there was a press controversy about what Morgan's real name was. Some believing that it was Moran while others maintained it was Owen but it was Fuller. Morgan was carried inside a shed. The coroner was called. When he arrived he examined Morgan and found an entrance and exit wound. When I first saw him he was in a dying state but quite sensible. I'm dying. He's got it all up here. He really does. Here's the problem. He said after some time that he was joking. I sound like my friend Bob. I don't know what he's joking about. He says he's joking. Are you not really injured? It's all a prank I don't know. He keeps saying it. He's grabbing his neck and saying he's joking. Now that I'm hearing it it is kind of funny. That's a good bit. That's a good bit Moran Morgan Owen. Dan Mad Morgan died. The coroner. Let's all slow down there a little bit. The coroner then had Morgan stripped. Had made him cook. Let's see who's eating meat now. He found a fibrous tumor larger than a pigeon's egg on the back of his head. A constable. Why I. Sorry. He found what killed him boys. The size of a pigeon's egg. That's how you measured things back then. It's about two pigeon eggs. That's how you measured all tumors. You want to walk down this street about 450 pigeon eggs. Left about a thousand pigeon eggs. Everyone's Irish in this story. I'm from America. We're on the egg chicken egg system. Good luck over here pal. I found them at the God Box. Yes. Well done. Call back. Some people don't know what you're talking about because they're not doing their homework. Shit I barely knew. He was searched by Constable Percy. Searched. He found seven five pound notes and 31 one pound notes in a pocket purse with one pound of Sydney notes and a draft for seven pounds. In his swag he found more money in silver over eight pounds. People were brought to identify the body. Thomas Kitts Kittsdon Settler. I recognize him as the man that stuck me up twice. William Ariel storekeeper. I have seen the deceased man outside and recognize him as the man who stuck me up at Wallenduel. He took over 35 pounds. Morris Brash Hawker Beechworth. I've seen the deceased man laying in the shed. Recognize him as the man that robbed me four miles from Wallenduel station. He stuck me up a second time 25 miles from Wagga Wagga. Two thousand pigeon eggs. John Pickering Jackson carrier of Melbourne. Last Friday night the deceased galloped up to me and waved the revolver. Stop the wagon he said. I stopped it. I want your cash cash quick quick. I gave him seven pounds. It goes on like that for fucking pages. They brought every person he had robbed. Is that the guy that robbed you? Yeah. Why am I in a line of 50 people? Hasn't he been identified yet? Right. Everybody. I heard everyone identify him. I have stuff to do. The news about his death was greeted with satisfaction all over Australia. There were a few who thought it was wrong to not challenge him. I can't believe he shot him in the back. Unbelievable. He was a good fellow. Died like a criminal. But others said he didn't give notice to McGinnity or Smith or the unarmed men he shot at Round Hill station. In Victoria they were pretty fucking proud of themselves. They said a bushranger would never receive the kind of support and sympathy in Victoria that Morgan had received in New South Wales. Many said this was because Victoria was never a penal colony. Is that true? I didn't think that was true. You don't know. It is. Let's just say it's true. A scandal followed due to what happened to Morgan's body. His beard was cut off his face as a souvenir. Cool. And then in front of Gawkers his skin was removed from his face to make a death mask for phrenological analysis. I'm sorry? What? Why did they take his face off? For Halloween? Why? Phrenological analysis. Phrenological. Wait. Science. Wait, like phrenology? Like to study the contours of it or something? Bumps on your head. Yeah, it's bumps on your head, right? So they cut his face off to study the bumps on his head? Fucking liars, bro. They do things differently in Australia. Well guess what? You're not going to be able to tell shit. You're going to be like there's no bumps on his face. I mean just a couple because there's stones under it. I just like that there were a bunch of people watching while they cut his face off. Yeah. Yeah, the beard guy was like, Sufa, oh that's way better. Why didn't I take the face? Anyone want to trade a beard for a face? I know, I know, I know. I fucked up. Fuck all I got is a beard. Some authorities protested because the death mask wasn't created in a controlled medical environment. No, you want to go to pros for that. Many people who took locks of his hair as mementos, his body was sewn into a wool pack and brought to Wangaratta where his head was cut off, where his head was cut off and a cast taken of it. Cool. So he wasn't cremated. The head was then sent to the professor of anatomy at the University of Melbourne. Okay, and then what? Then it became a soccer ball? Tobacco pouches were made from his scrotum. What do you got there? You got a Morgan bag? Anyone want some tobacco from a scrotum? Yeah, it's Morgan's. You know, you know who had a tough time? Who's that? One of the oxherd. Dear oxy, I hope this letter finds you well. I've been doing all right, but recently I was shot and I'm dying. I'm not going to make it through this. As a matter of fact, it looks like some people are going to take my face off. But I want you to know, oxy, you complete me. Sincerely, Don Morgan, up the river John, downtown Larry, across the banks Tim, fucking 55 others. Others not udders. Also, white Russians have milk in them. Fucking joke. There was an inquest held. The jury was taken to the spot where he was shot. They then went to the parlor in the house and the jury returned a verdict of justifiable homicide. The coroner and the police. The coroner was like, what do you want me to do? You've taken every piece. He died from everything. I don't know. What the fuck is this scrotum? I'd love a rollie. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Give me that shit. Where'd you get that pouch? Phenomenal. Why does it smell like balls in here? That's me. I keep my tobacco in a ball bag. The police officer in charge didn't think that it was a big deal what had been done to the body saying, quote, he did not object to the proceedings as he did not look upon Morgan as a human being. Well, I don't think I would at that point either. A scrotum-less, faceless, hairless. I'd be like, I don't know what it is, but it ain't a human. I mean, it is something. Yeah, it's like a just like a trunk, like a trunk of a guy. I don't know what it is. God, does he have a lot of areas to store tobacco? I'm going to turn him into a fucking bong. Fuck it. Cover his mouth. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on. That's not his mouth. It's hard to tell because they took the face off. Well, shit, Derry. There's another one. Try not to lose this one. Yeah. Yeah. Great. Well, we all learned a lot there, huh? Well, we would definitely like to thank everybody for attending this event. It means the world to Dave. I'm kind of like, but really, thank you very much. We'll be somewhere signing some stuff. I don't know exactly where. But before we do that, tomorrow is Dave Anthony's birthday. Oh. Oh, God. And so Craig and Dave got Dave something. And I'm going to say that I gave this to you too, even though I had zero input on it. But this is from the three of us. So don't be all weird tomorrow when you're like, what did you get me? Dave, I've got a good feeling about this one. I hope it's a scrotum. What? It's a scrotum. It's a scrotum bag. For your tobacco. It's a fucking kangaroo scrotum. Kangaroo scrotum for your tobacco. It's a kangaroo scrotum tobacco pouch. What the fuck is happening? I guess his work wasn't done. Oh, Morgan, you really are mad, lad. What the fuck? Who the fuck knows? I mean, one of those things, man. One of those things. Wow. So happy birthday, David. Thank you. Happy birthday, guys! Give it up for Dave Anthony. Thank you. And where should we go to sign to? Back there? Yeah, okay. Back corner. So we don't have any posters. We forgot them. But you want to take pictures or have a sign, I think, or just say hello. We'll hang out back there for a little while. And we really thank everybody so much. This tour has been so fucking fun. So we appreciate the hell out of it. And then I wanted to say one last thing. No, no, no. I'm wrapping it up. Thanks so much, guys. You guys, LA PotFest is coming up and you can livestream. All the shows. So go to LA PotFest. You can buy the livestream. And you get, I think, five bucks off if you put dollop in the little coupon code. So go watch. There's going to be a lot. Go look at the fucking program. There's a lot of really good podcasts. LA! We'll be there tomorrow and who the fuck knows what that's going to be like. By the end, I'm probably going to be like, it would be so nice. Keep going. Sorry, Dave. Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollop Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas August 19th. Join me there or join me the next night, August 20th, the State Theater in Austin or Texas. If that doesn't work for you, join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington August 26th. The following night I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club August 27th. Go to GarethReynolds.com.