 Give me it! I had just spent an hour ago, I realized I might be jet lagged. I took like a little nap, because we got in this morning, I took a little nap at the hotel and I woke up and I literally had no fucking idea where I was for like a minute and I was like, you'll get this. Piece it together brother, you got this. Use your clues. You guys seem hot. You guys hot? That's like a hot crowd. I'm gonna fuck up every single name in your goddamn country. Just so you know, there's one story I'm gonna read in this tour that has like a thousand names in it, it's just gonna be a fucking nightmare. Don't worry though, it's not about Brisbane. It's you people. You people yellin' out, it's Wumbalumbadoomba! It's a great town by the way, what a, Wumbalumbadoomba has some great people. Salt of the earth. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the dollop. This is our first time in Brisbane. It's nice to be here, it's actually a nice place. Everyone else talks shit about you in the rest of the country. What's their problem? Yeah, what the fuck? You're not stupid. I don't even know what they say, I can't remember. I don't know if that's it, but it's still always nice to hear you're not stupid from someone. No, you guys aren't dumb. Come on. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to bring out our guest. Tonight's guest is hometown favorite, ladies and gentlemen, Lindsay Webb! Hello. Hi. Thanks for having me along. If you can't see me, you can swing it out a little bit. You can just look at that monitor up there, we've been watching ourselves. I just watched it on the telly. Yeah, it's a fun watch. Yeah, it's cool. I'm excited. Is that all? Yeah, that's the end of it, but it went really good. You were money, that was awesome. Thank you guys. Keep on. Really, 1950! Right into it. Yep. Shout into it. After World War I, the Australian government had a difficult time finding employment for soldiers returning home. Starting in 1915, they started a soldier settlement scheme in every state. So they were trying to- Did they call it a scheme? Because that's a red flag right on the bat. It was in quotes when I found it, so- Couldn't this be a program, sir? Yeah. No, no, no, it's a pyramid plan. Trust. You're going to get so fucked at the end of this. It's a great scheme. I mean plan! I mean plan! Sorry, I keep calling it a scheme. Sorry, I keep calling it a scheme like I'm a crook. We originally were going to call it a shit house. Didn't think anyone would sign up for that. Not a lot of people signed up for the shit house. So they started giving soldiers land so they could start farming because they couldn't find jobs anywhere else. By the time it was done- That does sound great. They'd given 5,030 veterans a plot of land which they were to farm. That's nice. The main crops needed were wheat and then they needed sheep. Wheat! By September 1920 the government began to run out of land to give to them and started looking to some rather remote, not so great areas near Perth. Here's your phone. So I'm sure a lot of your buddies are saying they got a great plot of land and they did. Anyway, how about this swamp? You feel like you and the wife can maybe make a home out here? How do you feel? They're all going there's no swamps near Perth. Otherwise that was pretty good. Yeah, other than that if the reality cop wasn't here busting me. But right now they're all like this is going to be a long night. I've done my homework. There's swamps. There must be one. There's a swamp. I'm actually building one to validate this moment. And really has anyone been to Perth? Yell out if you've been to Perth. Not that many. Fuck all. They get caught up in the swamp can't get back. There's a bunch more who are like go see the show without us. It's too deep. And real. And in Perth. And in Perth for sure. Learning how to farm on a decent plot of land is very difficult but doing it on crappy land is much more difficult. And then the Great Depression hit in 1929 and wheat prices collapsed. What about sheep? Sheep prices shot through the fucking roof. You want to buy sheep now. Sell your wheat. I'm telling you sheep are going to be hot. Sheep are the new wheat guys. So we're clear on how to invest. On top of the Great Depression there was a giant bird problem. What? A problem? Because of all the wheat. Twins? A problem. What's a fun problem? Yeah a lot of birds is one thing but a bird problem? A giant bird problem. So wait they were actually it wasn't a huge problem it was giant birds were the issue. Yes. Even tastier. It's all the wheat. These birds are too big from the wheat. Tens of thousands of emus. Yeah that's it you've nailed it. That's exactly it. Right the emu. One bit in my hand once remember? Emu. Emu. Emu. Oh fuck here we go with the words. Emu. No Dave I've got it I just listened it's very. I'm from another country hi. You know people don't land here knowing how to say everything. You know I'd be your brother in this moment if it weren't for that swamp moment. It's called the Swimp. Tenus. Tens of thousands of emus. It's getting better. Very nice. Had lived on that land and they wanted to keep living there. Instincts a motherfucker huh. Until recently emus had been a protected native species but by then they'd become such a problem for wheat farms because they were eating the crops or just sitting on them and flattening them. But in their defense they're fucking birds. Like I mean that's. No I know it's like someone came in and went look food. And they were like alright I'm gonna fucking eat it and enjoy my small town. We were just talking about how hungry we were that makes a lot of sense. Oh my god it's also a good bed. It's a buffet. It is. It's a buffet you can lay in when you're done. It's a Shays buffet. I thought they had one of those in Vegas and it was a regular buffet. Mortifying it was mortifying. Just standing. Yeah just there. So they were reclassified from the protected species to be vermin. They were considered vermin by the government of us. Well that's a long Y-H-Y isn't it. They went to the opposite side. You guys are great you fucking piece of shit. Nobody touch em get em. They're headed for the swamp. I knew it was real. That's my ancestor he's insane. I told them. It's still not real. You know someone will say it's still not real in the future but they're wrong. Wow that's just happened. By 1932 there were 20,000 emus tearing shit up. The veterans who were just trying to get by were being ruined so they began killing them. What a shit life for a veteran. You've been at war with an enemy. You get this block of land back home that's full of fucking enemy. That's supposed to make you feel good. You know like a cartoon like there were like enemy heads on the emus at times. He's like on the bluff get em. Whatever guys. If you think I need your validation that was awkward for me. You're wrong. We don't need you. We do this alone in a house with echoes. Where no one reacts. I didn't like it when I was seven. Fuck you. All right Dave's still a little spicy from 107. You good? He's not good no. Veterans began killing the emus but they just kept coming. Am I saying it right? Emus? Emu yeah that's it. Emu all right. Yeah. I put a little joke in there. Nice. That's adorable. I like that you put the little bit about doing a little joke. There's a second parenthesis like explain the joke. Explain the fun Dave. Did you see I put a little joke in there? Leave that man alone Dave. They put bounties on each beak. What? Just on the beak? Yep. Well you didn't want to drag the whole fucking giant thing over. It's a giant bird. It's like nine feet tall. You just cut off the beak and you go here. But could there have potentially been a guy who was just like beak slicing and then other guys that kill emus would be like oh no he's going to buy it now. He's beakless. Are you saying you think there's a guy out there who's taking the time. A genius. A swamp genius. To cut the beaks off of live birds and then set them free. I don't know. Because it's easier than killing them and cutting the beaks off a dead bird. I'm not saying he set them free Dave. You're having fun. I'm not saying he set them free. So what's he doing? He cuts the beak off and doesn't give a fuck. He rolls. He does the beak and roll. He's beak and he's rolling. Come on buddy. I'm with you now. And yet the emus kept coming. The veterans needed more ammunition so they asked the military for help. Yeah they're back on the job. This is not retirement. I see them putting the camo on, the gear, wiping down the office. It is a new war. They brought the military in. So yes there is a war against emus. Yeah there's birds sitting on wheat. Damn them. Damn them to hell. So they asked the military to come in and kill the emus. And the military loved the idea because they were like for PR reasons it's going to look like we're doing something to help the struggling vets. Wow. Really? That seems crazy. What do you mean? Army defeats bird. You're like god damn right we did. You don't fuck with us. Now the ducks will know. Yeah take that ducks. There wasn't another why. That was the only way. Or drop a nuke on Perth. What about the swamp? The swamp will be fine Lindsey. The swamp will survive. The humans might not. On November 2nd 1932. Yep I put the second after November. Thank you. Things will also be done in gallons and pounds and miles. Because I'm American. That's the attitude you guys have fallen in love with right? So along came Major G.P.W. Meredith of the 7th Heavy Battery of the Royal Australian Artillery. Wow that didn't fuck around with reserves. No they went straight to the fucking big shit. General Meredith? The fucking giant. Do you remember him? Oh do I. He's the one who carried the handbag right? General Meredith ma'am. Sir sorry. Hi. Hello. Hi I'm Meredith. Are you ready to get the emus? Look at my big belly. Look at my big guns. It's I General Meredith. Throw campy at them. He had come to the district of Campion. What? Sure? Did someone say sure? Alright whatever. To mow down 50 birds. The military approached the birds in formation. 50? 50 birds. And they approached them in formation. Massive sock puppets. Just 50. Look at the fucking army. Alright gentlemen they're buying into it. They're going to try to mate. Get ready they're going to try to mate. Scouts and slingshots could have done this job. The emus saw them and ran in a mad fucking scramble in every direction. Because they don't fly. Which made it very difficult to shoot them. True. And yet the army was victorious in its battle. Yeah 50 birds. Yeah 50 birds. But the war was not over. Two days later some soldiers saw a thousand emus close by. They were like oh shit they're talking. Pardon the pun but they're tweeting about this. This is clear. They sat and waited for the birds to come close. When they were finally at point blank range they started shooting their weapons. Ten emus fell dead. And then the machine gun jammed. Dude you've got to love. There's 990 left. This is brilliant. And they're fucked off. They're angry now. They're pissed those are the ten friends. Their ten friends are dead. Put your bayonets on gentlemen. They're going in. They've got fucking big sacks. Most of them do one poacher was brilliant. That has got to be such a great fucking moment when you're like this is hilariously fun. What do you mean a jam. Sweet god they're pissed. Again the emus made a break for it in every direction. Stick into what worked. This battle the army had failed. One loss one win. One of the recruits said the emus have proved they are not so stupid as they are usually considered to be. Each mob has a leader. Always an enormous black plumed bird standing fully six feet high who keeps watch. Why is fellows busy themselves with the wheat. That's a metaphor for sure. You know what they're doing. To the wheat. Yeah I'm suggesting the emus jacked up. At the first suspicious sign he gives the signal and dozens of heads stretch out for the crop out of the crop. A few birds will take fright starting a headlong stampede for the scrub. The leader always remaining until his followers have reached safety. Sounds a lot like the Taliban. Or Laudan. If you think about it. Those nine people are on board so. Next the army tried to keep the fight mobile by shooting at birds with machine guns in the back of trucks. How the fuck is this taking so long? Like one gun jammed. You're better than that. Right? Now it's turned into the Aite team. They were actually emus. They're like we weren't emus the whole time. We're who you've been looking for. Yeah that's right. I won't get on no plane. But it's apparently very hard to be moving in a truck and try to shoot a quick moving bird. Eventually one bird got himself stuck under the truck and caught in the steering equipment. Really? Or was he a genius bird? Save yourself boys! Don't ever fricking harry! I'm like still kind of alive under here. They're really steering a lot. The truck jerked off its path and plowed into half a length of a farmer's fence. Round three to the birds. Jesus. So wait it's two one birds? Two one birds. Wow. Shocking result. Report! Bookie's like god damn it I did not see that happening. Oh boy. From a newspaper. On November 8th it was reported that Major Maris Party had used 2,500 rounds of ammunition. Fuck! 25% of the allotted total to destroy 200 emus. They could have fucking shot down a house. Yeah! 200 emus a quarter of their ammo. Ten bullets to name you. And they're fucking it up. Suckpuppets fucking hot isn't it? When one New South Wales labor politician inquired whether a medal was to be struck for those taking part in this war. What? What? Everyone was like get the fuck out of here. Get out you're done. Hey fuck why don't you go find a bird? This sounds like a fucking mind up story. Welcome to the Dalem. His federal counterpart in Western Australia responded that they should rightly go to the emus who have won every round so far. No fucking way! There is a guy who they want to William Wallace the emus. Emus! Hello! You fought valiantly. You like your wheat. Then another campaign against the large flightless bird was begun. So wait they didn't send someone to negotiate with the birds? Look we both have things we want and I think we get that we all love wheat so we can start there. I like wheat you like wheat. What about you don't lay in it? You know they're not even listening sir so I'd say swap! Ah swap over there I knew it! This time again Major Meredith on the 13th of November 1932 began the new battle. Forty of the goddamn birds were killed. Two days later the major was back and he managed to kill pretty much none. It's the second sixteen years less than three hundred birds down. This is fucking ridiculous. I mean the birds are winning real bad. They are laughing in the wheat. Major Meredith was not going to give up. Zoon reports were flowing in that a hundred emus were being killed every week. Every fucking week! Major Meredith took a look at how many bullets were being used and how many birds were being killed and realized it took ten bullets to kill one emu. Oh my god yeah he called that. Listen back historians. Old math guy over there. We brought him in for the math. So they could just take a bunch of bullets and keep going and it just wouldn't take one bullet to take down an emu. So they are hitting them it's just that they're psychotic birds. Yeah they're psychotic they are Michael Myers. Yeah. I'm happy. From the South of the world. Not the unherald not the Austin Powers one. No I was talking about the Austin Powers one. Oh okay. He just keeps making. Yeah baby makes me stronger baby! Oh god. It's time. Shoot it. Yeah! They're all doing Austin Powers oppression. Do I make you horny? Get them now. Kill them. Every single one of them is doing Borat. Kill them all. Get them all now. Oh fuck that once you want to think with its banky. From the sun herald July 5th 1953. If we had a military division with the bullet carrying capacity of these birds it would face any army in the world. Wow. They can face machine guns with the invulnerability of tanks. They're like tank birds. They can't be stopped. It shows you where they were at. Don't you see the answer? Train the fucking birds. Seriously. The problem is you can only carry one soldier per emu you can put heaps of soldiers in a tank. That is true. Has anybody tried to put a bunch of soldiers in an emu? I'm sure a guy has. Yeah a guy was. He's like it's the only way to do it. We could fit nine if they're not breathing sir. Centipede four. What did you do with the money we gave you? I sold them to the birds asshole. What was the plan? Oh that's what the grant was for. That's interesting. Can we start again? It's hard to unstitch. It's hard to unsentipede is what I'm saying. You can't desentipede. It's more of a commitment isn't it? Plus once you are sentipeded do you want to be unsentipeded? What are you going to do? You're going to hit the fucking talk show circuit? You're like well Oprah. The scientist must be. I can't get the taste out. I shit myself again. There's not enough gum. Oprah there's not enough gum. And then they cut the commercial. Everyone check under your seat there's gum. It's from last week. Chewed gum I should be clear. We're asking you to clean the seats. Sorry. Here's the great end to this Sunherald quote. They are like Zulus whom even dumb dumb bullets could not stop. Let's just throw in some horrible racism. That's terribly racist. What's this bird paragraph missing? I know horrible racism. The editor was like I love what I'm hearing. Is there any way to throw a racial dig at the end? They got feathers like Zulus. Fuck it that'll do. Put it in. So the major was recalled. The Emu war was over. The birds were victorious. Meredith lost. What? Yes. What if there were just a bunch of birds in the crowd? Or was it? No it was not. It was time for guerrilla warfare. They're gonna put gorillas in. Actual gorillas? Throw gorillas at them. They dropped gorillas from planes. Oh no they're forming an animal unit. Run! The gorillas are riding them. The government gave. It's working. It's working. Oh no they're taking over. The gorillas are taking over the planet. Jesus Christ. Why didn't we ride the Emus? They said in the last Planet of the Apes movie. The government gave ammunition to the locals to deal with the Emus. Wow just to everybody now. Yeah everybody's a soldier. Over six months in 1934, 57,000 Emus were killed. Jesus. This is 18 years later. That's a fucking movie. Just one guy out there. With a bandana on, just in the middle of the Emus. John what are you staring at? Emus. There's no Emus there honey. There are in my eyes. There will be if we don't stop them. The next 30 years waking up. Big! Big! John it was just a dream again. It was just one of your Emu dreams. It's so big. You had a wet Emu. So big. You're okay baby. You're okay. You're here with me now. And then he wakes up again. He's like ahhh. That's a double dream. I tried to run an Emu. The Emu is now a protected animal again. There are about 600,000 running about. But they are still in danger. Wait a minute they hadn't ganged up 600,000. There's 600,000 now in your fucking country. Wow. They keep quiet. Wouldn't you? Wouldn't you keep quiet at this point? They're like don't talk. They're waiting. They're having meetings. I don't see them at airports. They're like. The big one. Wait guys we're almost there. One million and we hit Sydney. Keep fucking. For now we keep fucking. For now we sit on the wheat we have and fuck. But they're still in danger due to encroaching human activity which means some do the war with the Emus maybe on again. No treaties have ever been signed. That's the Emu war. Wow. That's a real thing. Sanitize. What on the beds? Killing Emus. I had to do it. People kept saying to me and I was like it's too small but I figured. Well thank you very much for having us. We appreciate it. You guys are fantastic. Thank you so much. Hi everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dala podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv August 6th through the 8th and I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas August 19th. Join me there or join me the next night August 20th at the State Theater in Austin or Texas if that doesn't work for you. Join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington August 26th.