 I'm you. You're good. And Will Anderson, and Will Anderson's here. Okay, so you guys have been to, okay, so Los Angeles, Melbourne, Perth, and now Sydney. Yeah. Always in the front row. They fucking love podcasts, but they don't have an iPod. It's the only way they can listen. Ladies, you're doing it wrong. These guys were on Australian television before, we were having lunch, and a guy was doing interviews for the New South Wales footy show. So who'd that have come to? So for their street talk segment, he was just accosting people, and I made them do it. Will Duckhouse, the writer of the show, and I had a network, and he said that he was over. And the guy was like, oh, Will can, and everyone was like, you guys can. And we were like, no. And there we were doing it. Boy, those footy players are really good interviewers. I was just like, how is he coming up with all this stuff? Yeah, just so like... Like how is he saying the same thing over and over again? And he did a tell us a joke, which is just a fun thing to see on the street. Tell us a joke. He did the thing that every human alive says when they meet a comedian, and they don't really know comedians. Tell me a joke. Why don't you play some rugby for me? Alright, so my dad's been playing... Don't you... Yeah, you should have actually just started doing your act. I have a terrible relationship with my father. The cameraman's looking at his watch, and Dave's like, but I'm a dad now. And... You know... But that was the great thing, because he asked a couple questions about Father's Day, and I said, well, I'm in America, we don't do it now. And he goes, will your son buy you anything? I was like, he's not, he doesn't know. And then he said, what about your dad? Will you call him? And I was just like... Get a chair, bro. You have no idea what you've just done. Somewhere your dad's just like, look at Dave, fucking up another TV opportunity. 1983! Hang on, 1983? Yeah. Oh, that's fun, isn't it? It's fun. John Gillespie. He was a used car salesman, and he was in a Boggle Road jail in Brisbane, where he met associates of mixed-sayers, a Sydney gangster and boogie. And boogie? Boogie. Boogie. He's also a boogie board. Oh, yeah. I think, like, you're the man I've heard about for all these years. He's a gangster, but you can also take him down to the beach and ride him. He'll also scare your kids. Yeah. I'm a boogie, too. Yes, I am. In the early 1980s, Sayers was one of Sydney's biggest gamblers, but he lost more than he won, and he supplemented his income with drug deals. We came into this shit early. And he was known to be violent. The boogie man is. John Gillespie came up with a plan with Sayers men to pull off what was called a ring-in, where an underperforming racehorse is switched for an identical-looking, faster one. My hip. Yeah. You know, you actually know what... Yeah, that makes sense. That's what happened with me and Adam Hills. They're like, get Ando in. He's got two legs. Little did they know about my wonky hips. You might have to put Ando down. Our horse has got osteoarthritis. But he's hilarious. So bets are placed at higher, at high odds on the lesser horse, and then they pay out big when the switched horse wins. Right. That makes sense. So it's all fucking, yeah. Another prisoner, Pat Hytana. A prisoner? Yeah. This is all happening in prison. They're all hatching this plan in prison. Wait, they're in prison? Yeah, they're in jail. They're all in jail, and they're hatching a plan to get rich. Okay. I didn't, all right. That's what you do in jail. Sure. You scheme. Fucking idea men. So Pat Hytana was a jockey, and he was brought into the plan. After getting out of jail, Gillespie met with Sayers, who bankrolled the ring-in. Nice. Okay. At this point, Sayers needed a win. He owed more than $120,000 to the biggest racketeer of all, George Freeman, who had a great resume. He had been accused of murder, assault, fixing horse races, running illegal casinos, bribing police, and bribing police. The second bribing police was just so he got his free coffee. He had a card with all of them on it. He had one square left. Fuck, I'll bribe another cop. Here we go. So in May 1984, using the money, Gillespie bought the horse Dashing Solitaire. Lovely name. Yeah. A six-year-old Group 2 winner. So there's Group 1, which is the head one, top-notch, Group 2. He bought him for $10,000. Then he paid $1,000 to buy an identical-looking horse named Fine Cotton. Oh, yeah, right. That's no Dashing Solitaire. Some people just went, oh, boy. Fine Cotton was a nine-year-old gelding who was entered into as many races as possible. The betting price was driven down by racing Fine Cotton in nine races in 30 days before the ring-in. Okay. They're working that shit. They're working that fucking horse big time. Fine Cotton's running. Fine Cotton's getting, yeah, schooled. Hang on. Fine Cotton's the good one or the bad one? Bad one. Fine Cotton, bad one. Dashing Solitaire, good one. You would think with a name like Fine Cotton, though, you'd be a fucking great horse. You're really missing the mark on the name there. You're a fucking obvious. But Fine Cotton is like Nicolas Cage and the other ones like John Travolta in this face-off situation, right? Oh, shit. I'm confused now. Which one's Travolta in the face-off? Is it Dashing Solitaire or Fine Cotton? I feel like... I feel like Nolte. Pick wisely. Nolte. Nolte? Nick Nolte. Wait. Now there's a Nolte horse? The horse that's doing coke showing up everywhere naked. Jesus Christ, we gotta put the Nolte horse down. Make that thing glue now. No. Yeah. I'm trying to figure it out. Yeah, Travolta would be Fine Cotton. Yeah, okay. Oh, Travolta's Fine Cotton. Right? Cotton, Dashing Cage. That's the... Yeah. Huh? I feel like that added nothing. Well... I had a good time. I'm picturing the horses differently. They've done a face-off of their own. Right. One of them's enjoying the massage a little more than the other horses. A little lower. Do my front. I feel like every dollop should have a who is who and face-off. Get the mattress to sponsor it. By the way, you guys should get a chance to get a Sabbath. Fine Cotton came in eighth to last in all races. So not that good. Eighth to last. Eighth to last. They were also flogging the horse during this time, so its appearance would help the betting price drop. Why? Just making it look like beaten? Yeah. That's exactly what it was. They were beating it to make it look beaten. Gareth really likes animals, so of all the podcasts we've done, he's now more upset than he's ever been. I love how you made it like it was outrageous that Gareth was upset about somebody beating a horse. For no reason other than to drive down its price. Even if my picture is travaulted, it's still cruel. It's a little funnier, but it's cruel. What have you hit me for? How? Quit banging me so hard. It's hurting my back. I'm doing my best. I didn't know you had travaulted. And the other one's just like, when is it my turn to race? I'm ready whenever. Welcome to another episode of Almost Impressions. Wouldn't that be a great movie if they put John Travault's face on a horse? Finally. The movie no one wanted. Travault's horse. Look who's talking forever. It's not that far away. Essentially, look who's talking was Mr. Ed with babies. So you just do that back the other way. Dave just looked at his watch and he was like, oh boy. Okay, so a week before the race, Dashing Solitaire cut its leg on barbed wire and needed a dozen stitches in its leg. This horse would not be racing. Oh, this is the good horse though. I'm imagining these guys aren't taking the best care of the horses. So there's probably just a roll of barbed wire laying out. But this whole plot revolves around this horse being ready to race. Surely even these bad dudes would understand that this is their most valuable asset, right? Yeah, you would think so. But apparently they're just leaving barbed wire around like they're fucking wrestling. Don't worry about Dashing Solitaire. He's playing in barbed wire. We find. It's right under the hay. Hidden. We keep it there with some folded up chairs. But I think we're going to find out these guys aren't really rocket scientists. So that horse should not be racing. Dashing Solitaire is out. The conspirators had a meeting. Gillespie phoned Sayers. One guy wanted to just give the horse amphetamines. He thought the best way out of this fix was to give Fine Cotton a bunch of speed. Wait, Dashing Solitaire? No, Dashing Solitaire is out. Fine Cotton. Oh, so now they're just thinking our other horse can't race. So let's just get fucking Fine Cotton on an ice pod. Let's make it Great Cotton. Juice it up. Gillespie phoned Sayers. Quote, someone's going to get knocked over this, he said to the group. So new plan. Gillespie bought a horse he had previously been to see named Bold Personality. What is going on? I mean, Bold first, you got to meet this horse. He lights up a room. The stories? Oh, get next to him at a party. You'll be glad you did. I got another winner. Every story's first place. I'll stop. Gillespie bought Bold Personality with a bad check. He figured that after the ring in, when they won all the money, he'd be able to pay for the horse. Yeah. And who would care at that point, right? Exactly. Then the ring in was delayed for four days. One of the crew, Tommaso D'Luzio, went to pick up Bold Personality in a horse trailer pulled by a Toyota Corolla. I mean, once you get one of those things on the freeway, though, look out. I mean, fucking hell. They can barely get up a hill by themselves. You got to put a horse trailer in your Corolla. Parking on a hill, it'll be fine. I can take it. Sorry, my girlfriend's got my berina. It's like, he's just doing like 20 down the highway. There we go. A lot of smoke. Something that literally has less horsepower than the horse. I don't know what's going on. I've added horsepower. The horse should have been towing the fucking Corolla. I'm going to go pick up a Corolla. We're going to race it as Dashing Solitaire. Out of nowhere, Dashing Solitaire. Just got a horse head on it. Travolta's face on the front. I'm the horse's face. Why the Travolta face? I don't know. Dashing Solitaire reverse parking into the mounting area. D'Luzio had absolutely no knowledge of horses. Wait, the same guy who went to pick it up in a Corolla? That's the guy you have picked up. Can you believe it? It seems like he gets it. So he threw a heavy winter blanket over Bull Personality for the six hour ride. And it was hot out. So by the time they got to Brisbane, Bull Personality was distressed and dehydrated. Hayden Haytana, who is the brother of the Pat, the guy in the other Haytana from the prison they met. He was going to be the trainer. He decided that the horse needed to be drenched. Sorry. You mean as in with water or as in with the whatever that is that they drenched them with? You know how it's a farm thing. I grew up on a farm. I didn't pick it all up. Literally. But I heard the mumly about drenching and I believe it's a thing you do. I thought you were walking in the house. That's why you've got to drench them, Dorsalyn. Someday. What do you think drenching is? Well, I don't know is my point. I'm sorry I brought it up. You pointed to your face. You said when they do the thing. Well, there's some sort of... I assume you rely on a drencher of some kind. And you dispel the drench from the drencher. Into the drenches that you make them wear. Are you selling drenches? I don't work for drenches. Everyone should have drenches. Can't have inventions without drenches. Anyway, whatever. We're just pouring water on it, right? Okay, so drenching is when a hose is inserted into one of the nostrils and water is flushed into the stomach. I was fucking close. You did point at your mouth. I was in the fucking zone. Why is that better than just letting them drink water? Because that'll hydrate. It's like an IV. Yeah, it's like an IV. It's like a horrible IV. Yeah, horrible. It's like HIV. That's a horrible IV, I'm just saying. It's the worst IV I've heard of, honestly. Yep. Now normally, drenching is done by a vet. Oh, this gentleman just gave us a kangaroo testicle bottle opener. Perfect. And Will is now opening his bottle with that bottle opener and he's putting the testicles into his mouth. I was drinking drencher beer, guys. Drencher beer. Hot new beer on the market. Get yourself a drencher, mate! That's all I got. That's all I got. It's as close as you're going to get. I took a fucking chance. Didn't go well. I liked it. It was bold. Nobody, they're all mad at me now. You have a bold personality. Then put a hose in my nose. Wait a minute, that's the Travolta catchphrase. He's like, hey, you know what to do with this horse, put a rubber nose up its hose. Fuck. So close. I'm in his hose with a rubber nose. No, I mean it. That was like a fucking gymnast at the Olympics who fucking nailed the whole thing and just did that little fucking bit at the end. Yeah. My knee buckled. I'll take the bronze. So these intelligent men did it to bold personality. When they removed the hose, bold personality began to bleed. Oh, yep, that's not good. Also, bird personality was reddish brown with a black mane, tail, and lower legs. While fine cotton was dark brown, fine cotton had white socks, right, so the white legs, and bold personality had no white socks. But again, you can't judge it just on its physical appearance because this personality is off the charts. You've got to meet this horse. What it likes in looks, it makes up with its personality. But when you switch a horse, you want it to look similar. Yeah, you don't switch it for its personality. That's interesting. That's what he was like. The personalities are exactly the same. I did what you asked. God damn it. They act so much alike. You could take one face off one and put it on the other and you think it was the same horse. Same person, same guy. Also, the corolla's broken. Yep, we're gonna need a new corolla if we're gonna take this horse back. Put a bullet in the corolla's head. It's raced its last race. So, Gillespie went around town buying a ton of Clairol dark brown hair dye. Jesus Christ. What? They're treating it like, oh my God. It's not a problem in Australia. We can't solve with black face. I mean, there's just not a smart person in the group really, huh? Because there's nobody who's like, that's stupid. I just popped down and get some Jess for horses. Jess for mares. I like that. I had a second go at it and I nailed it. That's how you stick a landing. So that night they dyed the horse completely. They went to bed and they woke up the following morning. And they went down to see bold personality who had turned bright red. Holy shit. Way better than dying. Oh my God. I mean, it did die. But, uh. We got a problem, mates. No one's going to buy a red horse switch. We might have to switch faces. But the plan had so many people involved that they had to continue. What? Yeah, that's the wise of the wise. On the way to the track with the horses, they stopped at the home of Robert North, a wealthy Brisbane gambler who was in on the scam. Their first bold personality was hosed down, the dye running off. His legs were then sprayed with white paint. They're fucking spray painting a horse. I mean, you are in the worst possible place planning wise. Spray painting. He's like tagging it. Was. He. No! Just spray it. Don't put the date there. Not today, Banksy. He had a lot of this horse. He's a Banksy. But the paint just dripped off. If you could tag horses, it would be happening all over the place. Oh God. A matter of time until that's happening in the States. So, Hytana decided to wrap its legs in bandages and cover the horse with a blanket for as long as possible before the race. Oh yeah, because once it's moving, no one will see it. It's freezing. Keep moving, keep moving. Horse is cold. Yeah, keep moving. And then they realized that bold personality was wearing the wrong type of horse shoes for the race. What? How is that? How many? How is that even possible? What? Yeah, what are they? What are they supposed to wear? What? What? Oh no, these are my weekend heels. I have a bold personality. Get my hairs. He was like wearing pumps. Like, no. Just doesn't go with the outfit. So then they brought in a guy who did horse shoes, but he was like, you don't have enough time. I can't do it now. So off he went with the wrong shoes. The horses arrived at Eagle Farm track with just an hour to go before the race. Fine cotton was left out in the car park. Good. Bold personality impersonating fine cotton stayed under a blanket all the way up until it walked into the barriers. Okay. Hang on, why was fine cotton even there? Yeah, why did they bring fine cotton? Isn't fine cotton unnecessary to be there? Oh, we can't leave fine cotton at home, I suppose. We've got to bring them all. You know the rules. Fine cotton's in the back of the ute out in the fucking car park. Yeah, just in case bold personality needs to get any info on how to be the solitaire horse, you need him there for info. He's been the understudy for so long. Okay, so fine cotton's out there with like an earpiece, like serenade? Yeah, yeah, totally, yeah. Right, now run. Good, good, good. Keep doing that. Do that as fast as you can. Hey, this guy's asking me if I have kids. Do I have kids? You do not have kids. You want kids, but you do not have kids. Did you say one? You're breaking up. No, you want kids, you don't have kids. Hello? Bold personality. Fine cotton to bold personality. Yeah, I got one kid. No, shit, the mission. Get the spray paint. So, as betting commenced, fine cotton's... I don't know why he's there. I think maybe because after the race they might want to switch him out in case he gets expected afterwards. I mean, this should be like a Three Stooges movie. This is the plot of The Prestige, basically. But, I um... As the betting commenced, fine cotton's odds went from 33 to 1 to 7 to 2, because everyone in Brisbane and the world knew what was happening. People who had never been to a horse race were betting. I mean, there's not a functioning part of the plan. Nothing is going right. From journalist Jack the Insider, must be a racing guy. He's the best. Indeed, there were also a number of members of the Queensland Fraud Squad in attendance. Did you know about a Fraud Squad? Fraud Squad? The Queensland Fraud Squad, what's this, 1983? They were actually mostly in charge of the fraud. That makes sense. Yeah. About that era? A red herring. Yeah, those Venn diagrams would have been pretty fucking similar, to be honest. To be honest, if the Fraud Squad in Queensland in the mid-80s wanted to do their job, they should have just got mirrors and arrested the guy in them. It's hard with handcuffs. Both personalities battled it out with the favourite Harbour Gold and won by a nose. More than one million had been bet on fine cotton. Jesus. Yeah. The Canberra Times, August 19th, 1984. Fine cotton was disqualified, beat by Queensland Turf Club stewards after a suspected ring-in operation at Eagle Farm racetrack. Bets on fine cotton were also written in New Zealand, New Guinea and Fiji. It's like everybody in the fucking world knew about it. Fiji. There were countries where they learnt English in the time it took, because the plan was out for so long. Someone's first words in English were fine cotton. In the 40 minutes after fine cotton's win, police impounded the horse, betting sheets were seized and its trainer, Hayden Hightana, could not produce registration papers. Hayden said later, I thought, well, I'm in big trouble here, because by that time pandemonium broke out, people are jumping the fence and yelling ring-in and all that. So I thought, I'm gone, you know? I didn't even get to pat the horse when it came in. Oh, sorry to take away that sentimental moment, fuckface. Why don't you just go out to the carpark and pat fine cotton? Who's sitting in the back of your fucking corolla, you dickhead? You've left fine cotton in the corolla with the window down, this fucking mug, spent for three hours. That'll do. And a blanket. A corolla. So he just bailed. He just bailed and police quickly began searching for him. Three days later, the Queensland Minister for Racing, Mr. Hines, expressed concern that the trainer, Hayden Hightana, and his wife and children had not been seen in public since the race. He openly stated that Hayden was in danger of losing his life. Earlier that year, during a ring-in attempt gone wrong, a Sydney horse trainer named George Brown was found dead, his burned body left in his burning car on F6 freeway. Yep, that is a whistler. Probably lit a cigarette around while that's fry pint. I'm on break. Four days later, Hayden Hightana went on 60 Minutes. That's what you do, right? Yeah, for sure. Alright, I'll clear this up. He was still in hiding. He said the person who killed George Brown was a person connected to the million dollar ring-in of fine cotton. Smart thing to do. Go public with that. He said, quote, he opened his suit and showed me his gun and said, do you want to end up like Trainer Brown? What did he call Brown? Trainer Brown. Brown's a trainer. Oh, Trainer Brown. Yeah, what'd you think? I thought he said like Trinca Brown. Trinca Brown? Yeah, I didn't know what it was. To me, I was like, you know, if you remember, I went, what? Yeah. I was like, what does that mean? But also, that seems like an ornate way of language. Like, a trainer's things that you have to like say their name in front of like a... Yeah, like captain. Yeah. Is that how it works? No, it's not. It's not Trainer Brown. It should be. It should be for every job. I remember the 1980s and we weren't going around. This is comedian Garrus. Hello. This is my friend accountant Roger. Janitor Jerry will be here in a minute. He'll clean this all up. An inquiry was quickly held. In court, fine cotton co-owner John Dixon and leading Brisbane Commission betting agent Jack Honey refused to name names. Stuart... I guess they couldn't remember all of them. Stuart established that Tommaso Di Lusio of Brisbane was the boyfriend of Miss Pauline Pierce, co-owner of Fine Cotton. Okay. On August 31st, Sydney bookmaker Robbie Waterhouse was named in connection with the scandal. He dismissed allegations as the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard. Racing thrives on rumors and when you're the biggest name in racing, unfortunately you have to put up with being the subject of rumors. He asked if he could have been confused with another member of his family. He said, none. None of my family are involved. And then he said, I'm not sure what the words prior knowledge actually are meant to mean. I had no prior knowledge. I imagine I could have a guess based on the words. No prior knowledge of prior knowledge. What is... The first I've heard of this. The first I've heard of this. I mean, I know what knowledge means. I know what prior means when you put them together. But there's no doubt that I was wrong, firstly, to be involved with backing a horse somewhat serendipitously and number two, not more importantly, not telling the stewards everything I knew about it. So it seems like he just said that he knew about it. Right. Right? Well, he found out what prior knowledge was. The hard way. September 6th, a Gold Coast horse dealer named John Gillespie. A horse dealer? Horse dealer. Is that honestly what it is? Well, remember, he's the guy who bought the horses. So now he's a horse dealer. Horse means ecstasy. Oh, yeah. This is an ecstasy story. Do you know how to make this clear? Sorry. Horse means ecstasy. This is all about ecstasy. Anyway. No. Man, I thought I was getting some bold personalities, but I'm pretty sure these are fucking fine cottons. They're the same, man. They're not meant to be red. You got your glasses of solitaires, bro? Taste the sprinkler. You know what? The fine cottons are a little bit slower, but they're just as fucking good. This one just had a Travolta face fall off of it. What the fuck are these? John Glaspie said that he would attend the fine cotton ring and inquiry in Brisbane with a clear conscience, as he had nothing to hide. Glaspie said in an exclusive telephone interview that he had kept out of sight for the past week because of threats against him. While I haven't received the threats personally, they have been made to my wife, Glaspie said. Interstate business commitments had prevented him from appearing at earlier hearings. He had business. Interstate. Interstate business. Between states. Yeah. Right? Interstate? Just on the border. Or we would all go. Wait, that's an excuse? Yeah, he couldn't get there. He was doing an interstate business. It's a lot like your excuse to not get interviewed for that thing. I'm just... Business, business. Okay, not him. Leave him be. On September 7th, Hayden was arrested near Adelaide at about 6 p.m. in a hotel. Tom DeLuzio was warned that he faced punishment under Australian racing regulations when he refused to answer questions as a witness. Pat Haytana was alleged to have told another person at Eagle Farm Race Horse after fine one, it's race that he probably would never have to work again. Oh, man. That's, yeah, that's a little... Wrong. Yeah. And in the choir he said, that was the excitement of the race. What I did say I don't really know. Can't recall. Oh, that's good. I don't remember. Hayden Haytana posted bail and he left the jail in the boot of a car to avoid reporters. That's a suggestion of his lawyer. And then his lawyer snuck him into a drive-in movie just because he was in there anyway. It was in a Corolla and it still couldn't fall. Fuck, it's weighted down too much. Get in the boot of the Corolla. Get in the boot. I've said this before, I'll say it again, we should get a Camry. On September 23rd, Hayden Haytana won $1,000 at the Southport races on Queenland's Gold Coast. Haytana said he had backed the first two winners and for a joke he had also backed a horse called Blazing Cotton. That's a hilarious joke. A thinker. He was somewhat as a celebrity as Southport punters spotted him spending a relaxed afternoon at the track. So at the track he's like a... Celebrity. Celebrity. He's a hit. Well, you are though, right? If you're like a guy who's pulled off a big racing con and you're at the... You're the guy. You spray painted a horse and got away with it. Right. Well, didn't get away with it. But still, you had a crack. People loved that. Or just if you painted a horse red and tried to get him to win. That's... They almost did it. They came down and they found a horse that was red. I mean the fact that they even got a red horse in the fucking race is an achievement. I feel like we're judging them because they fell at the final hurdle, but they got a lot of things wrong. I mean it really must have been emotional for that moment when it did win. They were like, what? We were just an hour ago and we were just spray painting this. We fucking never made it. That's the wrong shoes. Do you know what's happening right now? Fuck. After winning that day at the track, he flew home to Adelaide. Later that day he was remanded in custody when he appeared under tight police security before an Adelaide magistrate for extradition to Queensland. Apparently they didn't like the whole showboating and going to the track thing. Had an issue with that? On October 12th, fine cotton's trainer Hayden Hightana, part owner John Dixon, Thomas De Luzio, Robert Ray North and John Gillespie were charged with conspiring with intent to defraud the chairman of the QTC and others. Short title. Queensland track... cunts? Sorry, did you go to cunts right away? What's your first... I think that's... yeah. If it's just the letters, I think it's cunts. Wait a minute. So any c word is cunt to you? Well, I wear it in Australia. Fair point. What did you say it was? Turf Club. What's happening? Queensland Turf Club. Oh, right. They say Turf Club. Don't fuck with the club. Right. On October 14th, one of Australia's biggest... Sorry, I kept out of that because I do a show on the ABC. All broadcasting cunts. No, Dave. Dave. No, Dave. Dave. Again. I'm pretty sure that's what it is. No. He works there. No. Have you ever been to Kentucky Fried Cunts? That's sort of what it tastes like, actually. It ain't chicken. That's all I'm saying. Why would it be that? It seems so much harder to mass produce. I'm not saying human. It's possible. I mean, it is being illegal. I'm a vegetarian. Why is that towelette so moist? It's getting moister the more I eat of it. I was just eating my chicken and the shout-it fell off the table. I like it like that. That's it. That's all I have. I thought you were going to ask a question. You said, hey. Sorry. It's his catchphrase. Were you just saying, hey, like, hi, how are you? Is Robbie Waterhouse in this story more? Yeah. Do you know who he is? Okay, cool. No, I wanted to keep my knowledge of him, but I didn't want to go. We're about to talk about the Waterhouse. Okay. Awesome. On the 14th, one of Australia's biggest betting bookmakers, Bill Waterhouse and his son were ordered to appear before the Australian Jockey Club Committee. You guys got a lot of racetrack club committees and a lot of- The Australian Jockey Club, though, it's a really fun club. Like all the stuff is on really live shows. I was just going to say, if it's a board of little jockeys- They just have a little mini-bowl. You know what? I love to go on there because I'm like, I'm a giant and they just fucking scatter. He's fine, run, run, he's fine. They're trying to talk into the microphones at the trial. They're like, so? Okay. What'd you bring this down? Negative booster or something? Booster. You want some phone books? Yeah, just two phone books. Okay. So, the Waterhouses would need to show cause why they should not be banned from all race courses. Yeah, courses. So, yeah. What do you know about them? You know a Waterhouse fact? Oh, yeah. Okay. Firstly, the plural of Waterhouses is actually Waterhomes. The- That makes sense. It does make sense. No, well, here's the thing. Like I don't want to spoil anywhere this is going, but like this is a whole- Obviously, a horrible story about these people who have corrupted the racing industry. So, obviously, their family was banned forever for being involved in the Australian racing industry, right? Yeah, for sure. Apart from the number one trainer out of Sydney is Gay Waterhouse. And the number one betting agency in Australia is by their son, Tom Waterhouse. Oh, yeah. We didn't flush this shit out at all. No, it sounds like you guys really cracked down on this. It was a massive turn. We tried to flush it. It wouldn't go down. So, we just fished it out, rubbed it in glitter and put it on tally. By the way, her name is Gay Waterhouse, which just sounds like- It is gay? Like- Is it a gay Waterhouse? I went to a gay Waterhouse last night. Yeah. I was at this Waterhouse and we were all in towels and I didn't really know if it was like a- Anyway, nothing wrong with that, but- Oh, I didn't know this was a gay Waterhouse. I thought it was just a water house. What happens in a gay Waterhouse? Says the John Travolta horse. What happens in a gay Waterhouse? I just thought it was a- Welcome to Not at All Impressions. Diplomatic immunity. John Travolta went to Sweden for a year and- Hello, I'm Travolta. I'll put your nose with a- I'll put your hosel with a rubber nose. You put the facey in the booty. Herneguiner, herneguiner. That's Travolta. In his native language. Scientology. What do you think happens at a Waterhouse, a gay Waterhouse? Stays in there, whatever it is. Just a bunch of dudes getting jerked off being like, I'm picturing a girl, don't worry. Notices also went to professional punter John Goh. Gary Clark, a professional punter. Sorry, a reflex. And Gary's wife, Glenis. Lettice? Gladice. Gladice. Gladice. Sorry, I'm hearing some fun stuff tonight. Lettice. She's a wedge. My wife, Lettice. Ian Murray, a punter and businessman and a priest. Father Edward O'Dwyer. Oh no. Quote, a priest got involved in something nefarious. I know, can you believe it? Oh man, I don't know when they left boys and got into horses, but here you go. It's okay if the horse is seven. Good joke. Barely an alter horse anymore. He didn't say no once. Father O'Dwyer admitted to backing the horse with certain bookmakers, a chief steward said. The priest had previously been a suspect in drug trafficking in 1980. The priest had? Yeah, the priest. How is this not a priest? What are you talking about? I love the drug trafficking thing. That is like adding an extra beat to communion, right? And Jesus said, take this. This is my small intestine. I don't know why that's a slag. The priest had bet $1,000 on fine cotton, which was his entire savings he had planned for a trip to England. Father O'Dwyer also told journos that he was in Britain at the time of the race. I bet he wasn't. I bet he wasn't, yeah. He was not. But God is like, you can lie about shit if you're committing a crime. Jocky's Pat. I'm still shocked that you guys spray painted a horse. Go do whatever. Jocky's Pat, hey Tana, and Paul Dykes were disqualified for 12 months and six months respectively. That's what you get? That's it? For fixing a horse race. Yep, that sounds about right. That's what Damien Oliver got a couple of years ago, right? He got about six months and he's our greatest jockey. So I think he fixed it just bet on another horse. You have a greatest jockey? Yeah. We don't, do we? Yeah, Shoemaker. Oh, cool. Michael Shoemaker? That's not a, that's, anyway, we've got him. He made shoes and he was a horse. He made horseshoes? He made shoes on the side. He was a cobbler. You think you have Daniel Day-Lewis? Nope, never mind. That didn't really land that joke, but if you go home and Google Daniel Day-Lewis really is a cobbler. That's a great joke. So that's a great joke. So fuck you guys. No, we are all in agreement up here that you guys are all wrong. How dare you? Yeah, Shoemaker, he was our best and then he died. I don't know, he got like too small. You should have seen that coming. He shrank? He's just gone. One day he was just gone. He was this big yesterday and now he's gone. I hear his voice at night. Help. Oh, he's not gone. He's just little. I'm down here. I'm down here. Help, help. That would explain a lot about jockeys because their voices do get higher. Do you know what I mean? Maybe they started big. Wait, they're like Benjamin Button with height? Yeah, and they just shrink as they get older and their voice goes up. Like they're a helium balloon they're letting the air out. I'm way on board with this concept. I don't know. I'm going to the Kentucky Derby. He's 95. So the next day, Brisbane's Channel 9 television news crew took Hayden Hightana to an unnamed property at Cumara near the Gold Coast where he positively identified a horse as fine cotton. Fine cotton was found at the Queensland police stables just several hundred meters from the Eagle Farm racetrack grazing amongst the police mounts. Hang on, at the fucking police stables? I don't know what's happening. Fuck. They'll never notice in there. They must have just been going like, he won't believe we do that so let's do it. Yeah. Dudes, we spray painted a fucking horse. You're stopping at hiding a horse amongst train people who probably account for how many horses they have every night? Cop horses. Customer Gary, is your spray painted? No. It's Garrett. And no. November 4th, a stormy crowd protest erupted in the gloom of a rain-swept Canterbury race course yesterday when the Albert Hightana-trained New Zealand bred gelding, Roy Mack, staged a sensational form reversal to win the last race. Holes had to restrain one woman as angry punters mobbed the mounting yard following the easy win, which came after the five-year-old's price had blown out from under 25 to 1 to 200 to 1 at the start. Albert Hightana is the brother of Hayden Hightana and Pat Hightana, who rode Roy Mack to victory. They're still at it. Wow. They're getting away. What an unfortunate coincidence. Really? Talk about the wrong place at the wrong time. Albert Hightana attributed Roy Mack's previous lack of success to injury. Quote, he's been at home injured since August 8th. He said it's taken this long for him to come good and I plan to give him one more start in Sydney before Roy Mack finishes his racing career and goes home to New Zealand. The stewards warned the Hightanas that Roy Mack would be closely watched. Oh, Jesus. So you take that. In November, the Equity Division of the Supreme Court heard from Father O'Dwyer's business partner Mario John Puglia. Yep. Okay. Often that, often priests will be in business with guys who are clearly in the mob. That doesn't sound mobish. What was it again? Mario John Puglia. Hang on, but that just makes no sense to have that allegation because I mean the Vatican is in the middle of Italy where, are you okay? No, you're absolutely right. Quote, we have a number of businessmen in total. Primarily there is a business of management services of giving assistance and advice to people who need help, particularly in the field of small business, people who get into trouble with banks. We are registered brokers in this regard. Father O'Dwyer is a director of the business, Puglia said. The role he plays is that he seeks clients where he can, as I do. So the fucking priest is finding people in his parish who are down on their luck and sending them over to the fucking mob cunt. Like in the story from the Bible where Jesus found the money lenders in the church and gave them all high fives and said, go about your business. Be gentle on those fives. Yeah. He had the, okay. No? They put nails through it. What? High five. He's like, yeah, I get a light one. Maybe let's fist bump. Hold on. This was pre-crucifixion. They didn't do it before. Like he wasn't walking around with them in his hand for a while. Yeah, now he was. It's like those earrings, like the big ones you get. You have to work out the holes. It still hurts. Yeah, it hurts, but he wasn't high fiving anybody. That's what I'm saying. That's my point to you. So when is he doing the fist bumps? Fucking dude, he's magic. Come on. Hand out fish, Fred. Fucking down. You like that water? Wait, what? Here you go. Lightning fingers. Wine time. Wine time? Wine time. It's five o'clock somewhere, am I right? I'm writing a new Bible and get ready. No, it sounds good. It's nine pages. It sounds like it might be for the kids. Yeah, it's the party Jesus. Teenagers would be into it. Yeah, it's this animated party Jesus. And he's just cool. But he still holds all that other bullshit. But he's cool. Does he spin? Yeah, for sure. I mean, he's got to be careful again. Those paws. Pre-records his beats like Skrillex. Is the new Bible called the paws of Jesus? Yeah, yeah. J-paws. Have you not heard his new album, Straight Outta Bethlehem? Come on, dude. He's a blood. What? He's a blood? He's a blood, yeah. Fuck what? He's the take this, this is my blood. Yeah, yeah. Wow. We just went on a magical ride with Jesus. I am into this new Jesus. You're going to love him. Bold personality. Great crew. Yeah, great crew. Great crew. Some of them be random. Yeah. So Father O'Dwyer's officially worn off Rick's tracks indefinitely. No more petting priest. You shouldn't have to do that with priests. I might be wrong, but I feel like somewhere in their vows, part of it is like, don't go to the track. It's inferred, right? Yeah, you would think. Yes. Right? Yes. Yeah. Don't go to the track. Although they don't stop thinking boys, so I guess the racetrack isn't like a... Oh. Wow. Well, I told you. We'll have to talk to the staff here because... Do you need mom? Well, no, just that the buckets are empty. They shouldn't... You know what I mean? I mean, they should be forever flowing. Are you talking floggings? Yeah, I'm going to flog the staff. Unbelievable. In 1985, gangster Michael Mick Sayers, 37, was shot outside his home at Bronte about 10 PM on Saturday and killed. He had double crossed a heroin dealer over $400,000 with a heroin. He did a double switch. Man, that whistle in the audience, probably you couldn't hear it on the podcast, but when you said that much of heroin, there was one dude who was like, hmm, I know heroin. Yeah. That is a sweet amount of heroin. Oh my God. As he whistled through his two remaining teeth. He wasn't even whistling, he just sighed out. Hayden Hytana was sentenced to 12 months in jail with hard labor for fine cotton wringing. Electronics technician Tom Delusio. Electronics technician. That's so great. Brisbane was found not guilty. Oh. No. Fucking what? The guy who towed the fucking horse in a crawler? Couldn't identify a horse in a lineup. Jesus. Like that was the bit. They were like, clearly this guy had no idea what was going on. He took a crawler to pick up the fucking horse. He should have called a fucking Uber for the horse. If you think I knew what was going on, why don't you tell me why I was towing it around in a crawler? Innocent. Oh, so I put a blanket on it. Yeah, I put a fucking big old blanket on it. It was like 85 degrees out. Whatever, 30. I'm not going to tell you. John Gillespie did not answer bail at the district court and was now being sought by police. He was found a couple of weeks later. He was discovered crouching in a cupboard in his sister's house. Heaven. The luxury. Oh, this is my sleeping area. I didn't know you guys were here. Like crouching in a cupboard. Crouching in a cupboard. Well, you really have no other option if you're in a cupboard. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. I am standing tall in a cupboard. He was a jockey at the end of his life. All three of them standing tall and proudly, look me head, don't touch the mugs. When they found him, they just like hit it to see if there's anyone in there. And he's like, Mags. What's that? I like the idea that they turned on the lights and he ran out from under the fruit. I think that was him. I think that was him. Gillespie would be sentenced to three months. Jesus. And, uh, well, oh no, he was jailed for three months, but he didn't have a lawyer. Quote, I don't require any. I am making no application for bail, he said. Then there was a paperwork mix-up and Gillespie was allowed to just walk out of court. Oh my god. That is beautiful. Three months. As much as he's a dick, you do have to sort of love that feeling for him. He's like, sweet! Alrighty, well, shit, later guys. Okay, I guess I can just go? See, there must have been a moment where he went to correct them. Or what, he would have been like, oh hang on you... No, I'm supposed to get coffee with my friends so I should go. Right, good, thank you guys. Very airtight. Shit, love it. When the court finally tracked down the paperwork, they went and got him and brought him back to jail. We found it. So, come on back. In February 1986, Gillespie fingered now dead Michael Sayers. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Okay, hold on. Sorry, sorry. Hang on, you fingered a dead guy as well? Sorry, sorry. Hold on, sorry. I forgot to tell you, he was exhumed. And they found him. Wow, what a... Finger bang in the corpse. Yes. Yeah. Man. Fuck you, Bernie, this is a weekend. This is weekend in, Bernie. Jesus. Alright, so they didn't finger a dead man. Well, I knew when I wrote fingered instead of... Accused that you gentlemen would get all dirty. She said he fingered a dead guy. Yeah, well, I mean, you can finger him. You go, that's the guy. It's a fucking saying. That's him. Nah, just because you're fingering someone doesn't mean that they're gonna... Keep going. Come. What? That they're gonna come. Dead guys don't come. But if they do... Ah, no. You're the fucking master. Master finger blaster. Did you see that? Did you get like... Thunderdome. Mad Max Thunderdome, the master finger blaster. We got you one of our finger blasters, everybody. Are we talking about the same thing? I don't. I hope not. Okay. Anyway. This one will be filed... He got a sticky pinky. Keep going. This one will be filed as mature on iTunes. All right. So he says that dead Michael Sayers was the financier and mastermind of the fine cotton ringin'. Gillespie said, quote, the whole thing was set up for Sayers to get back at the bookies in Sydney. Gillespie was not believed and was given four years in prison. Hang on. Was he a bookie? Which, Sayers? Was he a bookie? Do you say the bookies in Sydney? No, Sayers was the guy who gambled the shitload and was always in debt. And he wanted to get back at the bookies who had lent him money. Okay. But was the guy earlier a bookie or a bookie? A bookie. Oh. I missed that whole thing. I thought he was a bookie. Well, we were joking that he was a bookie. Oh, no. I actually thought he was. You don't actually take people down to the beach and ride them. Well. You know what? I fucking... If you like the nightlife sometimes. Yeah, I love the nightlife. My name is bookie. So you thought that I just casually said he was a bookie? I thought he was a bookie and that was something I didn't know about. And then I'm like... I was too busy in my head trying to come up with a joke about smuggling pot to barley in him. Which would have like worked at the time that I missed the actual fucking point. And it's finally because I don't really understand you when you talk because of your accent. Like, I finally realized you meant bookies. So... I thought he was a bookie too for a minute. Every single heckle I've gotten in Australia from the audience has been this. Raa-raaa-raaa-raaa-raaa. I just go, I don't know what you're doing. Raa-raaa-raaa-raaa-raaa. Sweet, beautiful fucking music that is, man. Beats the birds. And we've gotten some heckling. Perth, it was a gentleman who did some great heckling to the podcast. He was good. He was great. And then he came up and introduced himself after and was like, I was the one who heckled you. And I was like, uh... Thank you, sir. Thanks a lot. Remember how everyone in the room booed you? That was a sign. But on the upside, you got to meet Ben Cousins. So... I got that one. Even I got that one. Yeah, same. That dude? People in America... People in America are now Googling, oh fuck, this podcast. I know. I'm not going to Google that. I know exactly what we're talking about. Many cousins. It's classic. So, Gillespie gets four years in prison. Then Hayden Hytana said a man had come to see him in jail and said, quote, I've come here on behalf of Robbie Waterhouse as a friend. Oh, sure. And then asked Hytana to record a television interview and blame Mixairs, the dead man, for the crime. Yeah. Figure him. Figure the dead man. Then David Waterhouse, brother of Robbie Waterhouse, signed an affidavit claiming his brother organized the fine cotton ring-in. Bill and Robbie Waterhouse were banned from racing. In 1989, brothers Hayden and Pat Hytana popped back up on the New Zealand racing scene. Hayden was ordered off the Mentamata course. He was banned from racetracks in both New Zealand and Australia. And in 1994, Hytana was escorted from the Mildura race course by stewards. He just keeps trying. He just keeps trying to go racing. And they just keep getting him off. If he's getting found, that means all the times that he went there and bet and wasn't found, right? Right. Then in 2013, Hayden Hytana was allowed to return to the track. The racing Queensland board decided he had served his time. Sure. What? Yeah. No, you, you, you, I mean, look, you did your time. Twice you got caught. And clearly you will be of benefit to racing. And I love that he's clearly not even trying that hard to be in disguise. At least fucking like, pay yourself rent. Yeah. I'd be great if it, who? Never heard of him. I saw a guy who looked like an Oompa Loompa in white boots, but. Yeah. Why are your shoes sprayed, spray painted white? I'd like to place a bet. It's hot in here, huh? Christ. My silver's coming off. Because of the silver. The water houses were allowed back. Water homes. Were allowed back to race courses in 1998. Yep. Finally. In 2001, Philippine immigration agents arrested John Gillespie for allegedly promising foreigners high paying jobs in a non-existent country called the Dominion of Melch's Dick. No. No. This late in the story to bring up something that good? The Dominion of Melch's Dick? That's so close to Munch's Dick. Like so close. Like that would have been like, ah, what should we call it? The Dominion of Munch's Dick. The Isle of Succocks. I'm sorry. What is it called again? The Dominion of Melch's Dick. Melch's Dick. Melch's Dick. Let's name it after Melch's Dick. Hey Melch, you got some papers. Melch, I've got a country you're going to like. Yeah, have a big dick. What's the country? Get over here, Melch. This is your dominion. You get all the dick sucks. Gillespie was arrested for large-scale illegal recruitment and non-payment of debts. According to officials, quote, he had been introducing himself as either the president, governor general, foreign affairs minister, or external affairs minister of a fictitious country. Well, I mean, you know. Hello. I'm the prime minister of Melch's Dick. You want a job, bro? You know what kind of job I'm talking about. Hello. Huh? Oh, sorry, sir. What? Get on the island. This is Melch. You know the worst thing about that story is even in a fictional place, a woman can't get an important position in a government. I don't think we're ready yet. All the major positions taken by one man. Yeah, fucking white man. The secretary's a lady, and the secretary. And by 2008, John Gillespie had racked up 350 convictions. Jesus. For offenses including false pretenses, stealing, and armed robbery. At 68 years old, he was now being investigated for conjuring up fanciful stories that he had inherited a fortune made up of famous artworks and a string of properties on the Gold Coast from a private pilot who once worked for the former shah of Iran. Wow. I fucking love it. Go big or go home with the lies. Essentially, this is the guy who came up with the first Nigerian email. In order to convince, he was doing this in order to convince unsuspecting businessmen to finance his activities. Gillespie had promised various parties he would fund everything from a $44 million horse race. What? Yeah. He went from a $10 million feedlot to a $250,000 haul of anti-wrinkle cream. What the fuck? He got his negotiating techniques from the end of Get Smart. A $40 million, $40 million. Okay, would you believe a $10 million? Why would he just be talking to a guy? He'd notice he had wrinkles. He'd be like, you know, we also have an anti-wrinkle. Excuse me, wait, what? I know we're talking about the track and the $44 million race horse, but I noticed you had a little bit of wrinkles. And we have a truckload of wrinkle cream coming in. If you want to get in on that. Getting a good vibe. Five businessmen claimed that Gillespie owed them a total of almost $2 million. Gillespie told the Daily Telegraph the sale of some art to Arab interests fell through because they found out he was managing a Gold Coast nightclub singer who sang an anti-terrorist song called You Won't Go to Heaven. Well, why have we not heard more from her? I mean, that's why a lot of business deals fall through. Because he managed a person who had an anti-terrorist song. Also to be that clearly pro-terror. It's offensively anti. I don't know where I fall on it, but I'm not like that. No. You do really have a woman singing in your nightclub against terrorism, sir? You'll never get the credit. But also, like, knowing what I know about the Gold Coast, was there really like a Gold Coast singer singing anti-terrorism songs? Like, what the fuck? On the Gold Coast? I guess maybe the idea of finding 72 virgins was foreign to them, but... Well, we've got nine. So in 2008, Gillespie would not reveal his whereabouts because he said Muslim extremists were trying to kill him. Totally fair. On February 20, 2009, Fine Cotton died. Oh. Oscorp Entertainment paid John Gillespie and John Dixon to develop a screenplay about the Fine Cotton scandal. Gillespie said, quote, It's time the real story was told. I want to get it off my chest. Oh, yeah. Last year, Father Dwyer was interviewed by the Daily Telegraph. His ban was eventually lifted, but the priest has never gone back to the races. Now 90, immediately after the interview, he asked that the interview not be published. Did they respect his wishes? No. I love that they wanted them to make a fucking movie script out of this. And they're writing it. I love their story. I would have loved if they just handed in, like, Seabiscuit but on red paper. You know, we got some of the paint off the script. Is it Seabiscuit? You guys, thank you for coming to the bonus... What happened? That was the end. The horse died and everyone, we wrapped up everybody. Yeah. There's no one else to talk about, you guys. Unless you want to start a new story. I think the important moral to remember is these criminals are still fully involved in our society. Fully involved. They've got ads on the TV. Hi, I'm Tom Waterhouse. Like, his name should not be associated with... That's like Bill Cosby's son going into fucking comedy. Like, it's too soon, dude. Wait, what's wrong with Cosby? You know, Cosby might just be doing the longest joke of all time. Nobody's pointed that out. Good finish. We're gonna end this on a terrible rape riff. You guys, thank you so much. Yes, thank you. Because we're between shows, we can't do posters after the show. But we'll do them after the next show if you guys stick around and go have dinner. Why not have dinner around here? There's some great fucking places. Heard of Subway? You can go have dinner and then we'll be doing it after the next show. After the seventh show. But we still love you. Yeah, we'll sign anything, so come back after. We will sign anything! Bring a dog or a horse! Oh God, oh God. Thank you so much, guys. Thank you very much. Thank you. Hi everybody, this is Gareth Reynolds from the Dala Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv, August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there. Or join me the next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas, if that doesn't work for you. Join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club, August 27th. Go to GarethReynolds.com.