 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome The Doll. Yeah. That's different. That one actually, that almost hit me. So that's, you see how that's. Exactly how we rehearse. Yeah. Well, I can't believe how well that went. Our guest, our guest is Will Anderson. I don't know if you guys know, have heard of Will Anderson, but he's our guest. He's a local kid. We saw him the other night. I think he's got some chops. I think if he keeps at it, he might stick around. July 27th, 1837. Endites. They love dates. It's fucking crazy. Dates and Estee Cote. Robert Cunningham was born in Canada to Irish parents. Oh boy. There we fucking go. Dive planes in my gift for accents again. Into the Anderson wheelhouse. He spoke with an Irish accent his whole life. Well, here we go. He preferred to be called RA. He moved to the United States, the Serb did in the California. He was a very good guy. He was a very good guy. He was a very good guy. He was a very good guy. He was a very good guy. He was a very good guy. He worked in the California infantry. He settled in San Francisco and he fell into theater. He worked as everything. Stagehand, performer, musician, agent. This led him to touring with circuses. You better watch those SD cards. And then freak shows, which led him to the country of Australia. Already not good. I've always said that freak shows are a gateway drug to Australia. It's like, oh you like fucked up people? They've got fucked up animals. Get down there. In the late 1870s, he toured with a group called the Taylor Family Troupe. He was the musical backing for Maddie Taylor. She was a 10 year old bird impressionist. I'm glad that that's still a thing that we love. She did her bird impressions while playing the banjo. Oh, we all know birds. I love that it's not enough that a 10 year old can play a fucking banjo or do an impression of a bird. They're like, no, you need two to have a fucking act. We want both. Get out there, Maddie. Australians have demands. They demand more than just a fucking bird whistle. The Australians seem to enjoy. What does that mean? Is it like a bird, is it just whistling or is she, but while she does it, so she's actually just being like. Like that. Yes. Yes. Woo, woo, the Robin. That's it. That's the act. Oh man. Now I get the charm. Town and Country wrote, a more dismal performance than the banjo playing and characters sketching given by them has seldom been imported even from America. So they didn't like it, but the Australian people did. They thought it was awesome. They didn't give a shit about the press. You could still put that on a postcard. You know, they had to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I didn't laugh and neither did the cook of RA. Reader's Digest said first. Pfft. So, RA Cunningham would make trips back and forth between San Francisco and Australia over the next few years. He'd find a job at the new touring company and off he'd go. Eventually he became an agent who would go out ahead of the tours and set everything up. Sure. And he made connections. And over the years in the circus world he got to know a gentleman named P.T. Barnum. Oh fuck. Famous circus king. Guys like RA saw P.T. as a role model. So it's RA and P.T. Yep. So it's just wrapped hanging out. And one time RA arrived in Australia and found a letter P.T. had sent. I'm glad you said that because I was going to write. And all I'm doing is kicking myself for not going to write. No, I was like, oh somebody's going to write a blog about, oh I don't think that write jumps are appropriate. Even in a historical economical sense. Fuck I'm glad I got that out. Historical economical. I laid that shit down like I was Eminem. What the fuck. You're a rapter. A white rapter. Big beautiful rapter. So I arrived in Australia on one of his visits and found P.T. had sent him a letter. P.T. wanted to bring the American public quote all the uncivilized races in existence. I mean that is. You know what? Just what Americans want. Who possesses extraordinary puke. Puke? You're about to say puke? Peculiarities. Peculiarities such as giant dwarfs singular disfigurement of the person. Did you say giant dwarf? No. I'm a regular human. Giants. Can you believe it? You may throw your garbage at me. I am the giant dwarf. My shoes are the regular size of a man. Can you believe it? Trying to look away but you can't. I show you the inside of you you don't want to look at. And the outside. I'm you. I'm just you. Aren't we all giant dwarfs? When we think about it. Aren't we all a giant dwarf really? Unless you're a regular dwarf. I think the giant dwarf made a lot of sense at the UN. Good. What country was he there for? I represent no land. Hey people. There is actually a giant dwarf. There was one. There was a guy who started out as a dwarf and then he got the giantism disease. What? It's true. It's true. And if he was American I'd write about him. He was some fucking European shit. But he was a dwarf and then he turned into a giant. He was like this is awesome. Oh my god it's not. It's like the nightmare version of Big. Well it all happened when someone made him angry. That was too popular a reference. You wouldn't want to see me angry. I become a dwarf again. You probably want to see it. So in 1882 PT's agent sent RA a telegram and he said he wanted to get his hands on quote a number of the finest specimens of Australian aborigines. What? I mean we all knew this was where it was going. Not all of us. It was still worth a new when we got there. PT wanted to put on a show called the Ethnological Congress of Savage Tribes in the next circus. What? You guys. Shit was different back then. Ah no it wasn't. Next two months later Tony Abbott's Ethnological Congress of Savage Tribes goes on tour. At the UN a giant dwarf speaks on their behalf. A giant dwarf in blackface. No but he's like no I'm a minority too. I can do this. Giant dwarf scandal at UN. UN rocked. Sorry I'm just trying to distract from the horrible place I know this is. Oh it's going to a terrible terrible place. Hello white people let's have fun. I don't know if that's what we want to be saying. So for RA this sounded like hitting the lottery. He was now in his 40s and this was the break he was waiting for. He headed north because at this point most Aboriginal tribes have been wiped out in the south. Congrats. In Tasmania pretty much all gone. New South Wales, Victoria not doing so good. So he goes up north to what I think you guys call Queensland. Queensland? Yeah I know I'm fucking with you. Jesus Christ I've heard that enough. I was going to let it slide but I heard the murmur. I didn't it was a joke. I thought you guys were supposed to get this subtle satire and sarcasm shit. I thought that was your forte. That coffee. Oh do they like coffee? So there is still a substantial population of Aborigines in Queensland and they are about 200,000 people living there. Most of them now are getting forced to live in cities or you know they're getting. Forced. Yeah they're being put in places they might not want to live. Like getting office jobs out of Melbourne? Yep a lot of office jobs some are becoming couriers. It's just a good time. Did you make that joke on purpose? Because the Aboriginal tribe the kind of most prominent were the Koori. Oh no. Because that is a fucking excellent joke. Well thank you. That is maybe the best joke on the topic ever made. Thank you. And you've made it like some fucking rain man. Well did I? You'll find I do a lot of rain man stuff when it comes to these topics. You only play Guamas. Never had Natsa. So a lot of Aborigines were being recruited to work on pearling fleets. Sure. So by the time P.T. Barnum was looking for Aborigines they had gotten used to being offered jobs by passing ships. And then they would turn with a bunch of cash and they'd be like that was fucking awesome. I mean probably not but. Ari Cunningham went to Darwin in December 1882. He quickly talked five Aborigines into going with him and they were about to board the ship when a local cop stopped him and questioned him. Ari explained what was going on and said the five natives understood what they were in for. Sure they did. And then the cop told the Aborigines what he was doing and they ran away. Typical showbiz story. Happens with most young men when they meet Simon Cowell. But every now and again. When you win it. When they stick one direction. Get ready. The Aborigines one direction. They would have a funny name but I don't have it. Those Aborigines. Those Aborigines. They'd be called Boomerang because they were like one direction and then back the other direction. They would be Boomerang. We are two direction. Yeah. Get ready. They told everyone they knew and suddenly no one would have anything to do with Ari and Darwin. So he left Darwin. He jumped on a ship. Went to Townsville. There he immediately told authorities what he was up to so there wouldn't be any trouble with the local cops. Sure. Be up front. And the authorities were like great idea. Take a bunch of them. Interesting. Ari. Welcome to Townsville. Ari hired a boat and went to find some very isolated Aborigine camps. He quickly convinced some to go with him. On January 22nd 1883 he got on a ship going to Sydney with nine Aborigines. What did he tell them? He was just like. I don't know. Do you not want to reveal? No he doesn't. It doesn't go into that. We just know that he. The heart cell is just like trust me it's going to be amazing. It's going to be fucking awesome. You guys how could this be bad? You guys like money? You like pussy? Get on this boat. Come on boys. Yeah. We're going to trade. Your lies. You're going to love PT. He's great. He's awesome. Come on guys. Everything else a white guy's promised you is white that awesome. Come on. Yep. Yeah. So far it's been just a walk in the park for you guys. Come on. Get on this ship with a bunch of dwarves. Not next to that normal freak human. I'm a giant dwarf. You are a regular man. Fucking works here. He's shouting as a giant dwarf. Get out of work. So that's the detail to get out of work. That's the genius. It's like one day this guy's like fuck this shit. I'm also a freak. They don't have to work because they're with the freak show. He's like no I'm a Jew. I'm the giant dwarf. God damn it. He's good. I'm the bearded man. The bearded man. I'm the mermaid untouched by water. Behold the one with two legs. So the aborigines were Tony and Jenny who brought their eight year old boy. Tony and Jenny. These are their names. Tony and Jenny. There's no way that was their name. With their boy. Look. It's their names. Tambo and Sassy. A couple. Okay that's worth. Sassy? Yeah Sassy. Okay. Yep. Tambo and Sassy are fighting again. It's so only beginning gentlemen. A young man named Jimmy. There was Bob and Billy. And another guy whose name no one knows. That guy's gonna be fine. No. No he's not. Why do you say that? He'll be fine. He'll be buried shortly. No doubt. Anyway that's a Sassy. Yep. When he got to Sydney he discovered the next ship to San Francisco was not leaving for weeks. So he booked himself into a hotel room and put the aborigines in a shack out back. It didn't take long for them to realize this was a fucked up situation. Two of them ran away and then RA posted notices around town asking for anyone who spotted Billy and Jimmy to capture them. And then they were spotted by a constable and they got into a fight with them and the constable got injured. And then they were in front of a judge. And there they told their story and the judge was like I'm sorry what's happening? And then they found out that there were seven more shacked up behind the hotel. And they went and questioned them and they appeared to not know that they were going to join a circus. So. I mean that seems weird because earlier on you said he explained to them exactly what was going on and they agreed to what was going on. I said I didn't know. I mean at the time I was skeptical because of the language barrier and stuff. I was like maybe they didn't fully comprehend the offer that he was making to them. But now it feels like. Fame is a universal language. I mean how do you get there like what's a circus? He's like ah ah ah. Enough of that circus talk. Come on. Leave them back here. They're fine. Sassy enough. That's enough out of you. Local papers jumped on the story screaming about the injustice. The evening news accused RA of kidnapping. Then a telegraph arrived from Queensland's chief inspector of police who said they all went willingly and knew what the deal was. So the charges against Billy and Jimmy were dropped and they were released back into the custody of RA. I mean. Hey you don't fuck with PT Barnum's fucking shit. Even if they're people. Those are the only charges you don't want dropped against you. You're like please keep the charges. Please put me in jail. Jail sounds great. So in Queensland it's defense. No. No I've got nothing to be honest. Maybe the fact that it's really hot there all the time and if your neck's already red. He's like fuck it I've got the look. That's not a bad joke. I could do that independently of this podcast in my house. You'll be seeing that joke later tonight. Dave can you edit this chunk out. Danny's got a new hour cooking. So the old boyer ship headed for the United States of America and they arrived in San Francisco in April 1883. Finally to a place black people are traded better. Thank you. They will live like kings now. They rode a train across the country. On May 6 they arrived in Baltimore and the next morning the nine Aborigines were leading a PT circus parade through the city. Behind them were Zulus, Amazonians, Houghtonauts, Sioux, Nubians, Zulus, Georgia Coons. Keep moving. That seems a little racist. I love that we will all like ooh that's inappropriate. Let's go get some cheese that has the same name. Might be time to change that cheese's name. We've seen it. We're in the grocery store. What the fuck's going on? Do you see what they're calling their fucking cheese's name? They got N word bread. What's going on? Fuck are we? They're also Arizona pickaninnies. It's not a thing. That's not a thing. There are no pickaninnies and they're certainly not in Arizona if there were. Redskins of the Klondike, not a thing. Japanese strongmen. Contortionists, crocodiles and then jumbo the elephant. It feels like you're reading out the lineup for fucking Splendor in the Grass. Why would you put crocodiles right in front of an elephant when you have nine groups of men? Why would you not? Because the people want a show. Yeah, they want a show, man. It's a show. You think they're scared of mice. Buckle up. During the parade, Toby, Billy and Bob and Tambo danced. The others sang and clapped their boomerangs together. As they performed, the Zulus hissed at them. Already tension. There's tension. A newspaper wrote, the Nubians, Indians and Zulus looked with disgust at the crowds that stood open mouth before the new arrivals. So they're jealous, I think. How is that possible? They're jealous of the Aborigines. Yeah. Cool new kids. Cool names. It's just, I'm always proud when Aussies dominate on the world stage. They're intimidated. We're punching above our weights. Look at that, fucking Zulus. Fucking take that, Zulus. I would have thought we wouldn't go up, but you know what? Fucking good on them. You're about to meet two direction. Fucking... The Zulus are like, we need a hit. Zulu boys. Our Chukka Zulu shit isn't flying anymore. I like it. Maybe an acronym. So. We can be racist against Zulus because no one knows what they are. Whoa. Wow. The audience just went, Will Anderson? The farm boy comes out. Fucking Zulus coming to our farm. You have a Twitter feud with the Zulu? Salons involved. So they appeared in their first big top performance. They threw boomerangs and performed dances and Ari spoke to the crowd. He called Sussy. Sassy. Well, it better not be Sussy. I've fallen in love with Sassy. Princess Tagahara, daughter of the cannibal king of Queensland. Oh, the royal king. They're doing a little promotional, a little ad-non stuff. Sure. The first day 30,000 people came to see them. They were the first aborigines to come to America and it was a big deal. Local papers wrote extensively about the cannibals. So wait, the whole, sorry, the angle. Yep, the angle. The angle is cannibal. Yep, they eat people. That's the cannon in gold. That's it. Yeah, but it's just sharp ears. Yeah, it's not real. Like, I mean, it's not like Ozzy Osbourne was eating all the fucking, like, bubs. The bats. You mean the bats of the bat dogs? The bugs. I love bub man. But so that's the angle. They're like, they eat people. Yeah, they eat people. Well, that's exciting to see a cannibal. Come on. Have you guys ever seen a cannibal? No, I don't think we have. Well, maybe we have. I don't know. They're in America now. In this story, they're in America. Come on, get on board. The show is a huge hit. How could it not be? I don't know. It was his most successful show yet. R.A. explained in the interview why they were so well behaved. They realize, they realize fully that their good behavior will be duly appreciated and property rewarded by me. And as they know, I am the only one who can restore them in safety to the native wilds. So they act accordingly. Thank you. I was in East Irish. I forgot about that. The circus tour ended in October and R.A. took them on a tour of dime museums. Like the one... Not all these fucking dimes. Like the one who... There's over five dimes in here. There should be more eventually. Don't eat each other, saucy. Watching you, girl. That's a fucking nickel. There's nickels in the dimes. There's a lot of shit that I don't enjoy in here. I mean, there's so much space. It's a table. Oof-dee-goof-dee was in a dime museum. That's the kind of place you talk about. So you know you're dealing with normal shit. So they were touring small theaters in cities and towns all over America. It was pretty much the bottom of the bottom. A dime museum in Baltimore's most popular attraction... A dime museum in Baltimore's most popular attraction was Abraham Lincoln's last bowel movement. No fucking way. Like, I... That's an attraction, but that's your most popular attraction? Yeah. What? Hey, kids. You know what we're doing today? We're gonna go see the last shit that Lincoln took. Is that where the term Lincoln log comes from? You want me to build a house out of this? Don't touch that! It breaks. It was said to be... Well, I mean, hold on. That is fucking...why? Okay, well, it was said to have been taken from a chamber pot at Ford's Theater. The shit was mounted in a frame... That could just be a random shit! How did I trace that back? What do you mean? Look, it was mounted in a frame and had a certificate stating that it was real. It was not! Who wrote the certificate? The guy in the bathroom! What? Who, the pot? This is not a real thing! Yes, that was the last shit of Lincoln. Was it a guy who was a big Lincoln fan who was like, I'm gonna keep this shit, and then suddenly he fucking died, and he's like, I've hit the jackpot, is that what happened? Or a guy who Lincoln just went to take a piss and he was like, I've got an idea. Here it is. He told me it was his. That'll be $500,000. You're gonna want to frame that real nice, guys. Tighten that up, too. Later, this shit was tested and was found to be a fake shit. I called fake shit. I did call fake shit. I knew it! I smelled something weird. It was actually from the 1920s, just a common-toothed shit. Just a guy who shit and went, I'm gonna fucking make that a famous shit. Look how great that one is. This should be in a frame! It was John Wilkes' poop. All the Aborigines learned to speak English while in America, and because they mostly learned it from RA, they all spoke with Irish accents. I know this story's fucked up, but adorable! It's the greatest thing ever. So far, so good, actually. I thought this was gonna get heaps worse than this. Oh, it's gonna. I mean, we've already framed shit. They were reliant on RA for food, shelter, and medical care. They were said to love a variety of foods, especially tropical fruits, fish, and oysters. That's not a variety. RA also said that, quote, they are extremely fond of making small purchases of gaudy handkerchiefs and trinkets. Sussie and Jenny bought copper necklaces and jewelry in Chicago. Sussie was seen performing in pink knickerbockers. So shit's fucking, it's awesome. She's got knickerbockers, they're pink. She's fucking having a good time. They're like turning into Irish gypsies. Then things started to go south. Ah! I thought this was gonna be the first nice one. No. This is the one I was worried about doing in public. I mean, after what I've heard already, that's disturbing. I didn't think that anything would get a giant dwarf out of my mind, but now there's a framed shit. So... Tambo and Little Toby became sick when they arrived at their next Dime Museum gig. The Aborigines were angry with RA, accusing him of bringing them to a strange country to die. The tall one with no name fell ill. We still know that? He'll be fine, he'll be fine. See ya, tall guy. He's gonna be fine. Yeah. He dies now. At their next stop in Pittsburgh, a reporter came upon RA spooning medicine into Tambo's mouth. RA told the reporter, it's all I can do to keep them alive. Don't write that. In the paper. On February 23rd, 1884, Tambo died in his hotel room in Cleveland. Oh. You thought this was gonna go another way? I didn't know Tambo was gonna die so early. Sassy was his lady and she was not happy. She stopped eating. The rest of the nine refused to take part in any sort of show. RA was fucking pissed. After all he'd done for them. To fucking lack of bloody respect. Jesus Christ, they took you from your homeland and showed you the world like caged beasts. How could you not? Think of all the sight we saw. A frame bowel movement. That's it. You guys wanna turn against me? Go ahead. Give it a shot. RA told the reporter. That's the tall one. RA told the reporter, I'm having trouble with the creatures and wishes they were off my hands. He's a fucking monster you guys. Tambo was the worst little lot. So he's happy to be done with Tambo. Oh cool, so he's happy Tambo died. Tambo, Tambo. It's like when Zane left. People were like, make him recover. The next guy with no name died. Yeah, tall guy died. Yeah, tall guy's out. Okay. You guys can't care about him, he didn't have a name. That's why we kind of fell in love with him. We can, thought it was cool to see him. Yeah, tall guy? If you guys are getting sad now, it's gonna get weird. Just so y'all know, we didn't do this, we're just telling a story about him. It's not a good story. We weren't involved. RA quickly got the group out of town before the press became hip to the dying situation. Move along, move along. He also wanted to make up for the cash he'd lost because of the surviving aborigines work strike. So he sold Tambo's body to Drew's Dime Museum. Jesus Christ. What a piece of shit. He's such a piece of shit he should be in a frame. That's fucked. Selling his body. When do we get to see Tambo, fucking Irish aborigines? Where's Tambo's body? We want to say goodbye. We fucking miss Tambo. So RA then took the show to Europe where people had been in love with freak shows for a long, long time. They started off in London where the London Standard wrote, Although they are described as the lowest type of humanity, they seem very intelligent. You guys know this happened, right? You guys all seem really shocked that white people were horrible. First I've heard of it. So in Europe they'd stay somewhere for a while. They spent a month in Brussels. During their entire stay, two anthropologists came and examined the aborigines. They revealed that several of them had tuberculosis. Only, it's fine. It's totally curable. Yeah, no. That's an easy fix. Only Billy and Jimmy had normal breathing. And given that Tambo had died of a chest infection, it didn't seem good. The aborigines started to pick up French rather quickly. What? Because they were exposed to it constantly. These accents are going to be off the charts. Super geniuses. Yeah, I mean, good God. At one point a French woman... French Irish aborigines. Just like I told you, y'all should know. At one point a French woman questioned Jimmy why he wore a nose bone. And Jimmy shot back, Why do you have holes in your ears? Good point. Have a good stay. In each city they went to, they drum up excitement about the show. They put on a boomerang throwing display in a park. This stopped in Berlin when Jimmy hit a man in the head with a boomerang. That doesn't sound like Australian's episode. You know what the boomerang has in common with your husband? Neither's coming back. Really hit him hard. What are you talking to her about? Not nice, has he? Next the show went to Berlin where they would be for three months. It was now apparent that the aborigines were not really enjoying the limelight. Why? I don't know. It's weird, right? It's a fucking sweet tour. Yeah, dude. Tour's a tough. You guys have been to fucking Adelaide and Perth. They went to fucking Paris and Berlin. I feel like that could be a dollop. So in Berlin, RA sent an invitation to reporters to come and watch the aborigines as they ate dinner. Oh, what? When they arrived, they found that the aborigines were already seated around a table covered with a white tablecloth, and they were being served by a servant. Just a regular day at the house. This is how we do it with our man boy. I thought you guys were coming at seven. Oh, you're early. Yeah, we're just having our five course dinner that they get every night. A lot of them are wheeze. First time I've eaten meat in a month. So fuck you. The aborigines were pissed. For some weird reason, they're upset that people invited to watch them eat. Each time a new reporter walked in, the aborigines became more angry. They finally put down their utensils and refused to eat. Also, aren't they meant to be cannibals? Oh shit. Wouldn't that be the only reason you want to watch them eat? Yeah. They're going to fucking eat some people? Yeah, he's just like cut up a bunch of meat. They're like, this is their friend Tambo. Right over there, they're finishing off Tall Guy. Hey, that one's eating oysters. Yeah, those are testicles we shelled. Get them the fuck out of here. That enough. Who gave them oysters? RA eventually had to bribe them to keep eating by giving them tobacco. Are there reporters watching this? I still stood around and wrote about it. It's a fucking great story. This is just great news back then. We watched them eat. Next, they were invited by a professor to come to the Royal Museum of Berlin. This was a treat. They were seeing many things they had never seen before, and they were greatly enjoying the tour, especially when they came across aboriginal artifacts. Somebody's going to wake the baby. But things went a bit south when they saw the display of a mummified aborigine. The mummy had its knees drawn to its chin wrapped in bark, which was a normal way some aborigines were buried in Australia. So what about that did they not respond to? That's... I know him. But here's also what you've got to know in a cultural context. Like indigenous people, as part of their culture, don't like to see images of people who have passed away, so if you're making a program that features... Say there was a famous indigenous singer from a band called Yothu Yindu, who was Australian of the Year, and he passed away, so it was a big news story, and they warned at the start of everything that it might disturb people because they don't like to see images. Essentially, you've just done that. Yeah. Like in real life. Is that why they ate people? LAUGHTER Dave. Dave. LAUGHTER David. Dave. Dave. Don't try to connect those dots. LAUGHTER Imagine being the tour guide, though. What are you guys so mad about? It's one of your buddies. I think you guys will respond to this one right here. It's you guys. Do you want some people, Dave? What's going on? LAUGHTER Right. I'm very hungry. I think I read about it. So they think that if they see a body like that, that a bad spirit can come in them and harm them. So probably not a good tour. No. Then Bob died, which right after the fucking tour, everyone's like, yeah, I fucking told you. You know the museum guy was like, what are you going to do with Bob? LAUGHTER Now we've got two. We can be creative. Look, we could do a whole domesticated thing. Oh, my God, wait a minute. Making a dinner of people. Wait a minute. Salt and pepper shakers. I'm loving it. We'll do a whole thing. Them having people over for dinner. What? LAUGHTER Sorry, I shouldn't pitch it that hard, but let's just get that body of Bob. But I'm seeing a whole... Cap look. I'm retiring. So they kept the show going in Europe. Now they were doing small shows in restaurants and pubs. Who the fuck... Who would eat around that shit? I mean, that's terrible. You're sitting there eating a fucking sausage and some guy's throwing a boomerang behind the bar. Yeah. Like, we used to be up in the up for ever having a thing called shit. LAUGHTER Now this is fucking dinner theater. LAUGHTER Where's that guy from? From France and Ireland. LAUGHTER Oh, I tell you so much, it's unbelievable. LAUGHTER APPLAUSE I'm like, oh, where's your accent from? Are you Friarish? LAUGHTER Top of the jour. LAUGHTER Oh, your French fries. LAUGHTER My favourite food. All I eat. I don't know what's happening now. LAUGHTER It's gone crazy. In Frankfurt, Jimmy dies. Oh. Guys, I'm already... No, I think it's great how everyone's got attached. Yeah. Jimmy was our favourite. So now there are five... Oh, the tall guy. LAUGHTER Oh, Lord. LAUGHTER Pouring out the beer. I hope you're up in the sky with no name. LAUGHTER Doing whatever you did, tall guy. So now it's just Billy, Toby, Jenny, young Toby and Sussy. He keeps the show moving. The next stop, Sunborn. Only four of them perform because Sussy is too ill. So, she passes away on June 23, 1884. Did you think she was going to pull through? No, when someone's too sick to perform, they're dying in this story. She was buried in a Protestant graveyard without a coffin, just as her family in Australia would have wanted. She put her in a hole. Oh, no, wait. That was sarcasm. Since there was no public graveyard, the Protestant graveyard was forced to take her, so even better. Ah, fuck, really? The dwindling number of Aborigines did not stop the large crowds from showing up to see them. Next, they run to Paris. To be honest, and I don't mean this in a mean-spirited way, but the less they are, the more demand there is. They're rare. Yeah, they get rarer every town. They get more rare. It's a little bit like The Beatles. LAUGHTER You see Ringo now, you're like, that's fucking awesome. That's always been cool. That's fucking awesome. Yeah, but that is true, right? Because otherwise, if all four were still here, you would not give a fuck about Ringo. His posh Ringo? You know he's doing a train voice now. But, you know, he's still here, so we love him. Ringo taking a little shrapnel on the dollop tonight. LAUGHTER That's right, star, we're coming at you. Finally. Finally. Calling you out. LAUGHTER So, they went to Paris where Toby... Died. Yeah. Died. Now all that remained was Billy, Jenny and little Toby, who they were all very oddly disbanded. Hang on, so I must have missed this earlier. Was there a Toby and a little Toby? Yeah. Yeah, but the big one... No, no, there's a Jenny... No, there wasn't a big Toby. I don't think there might have been. Yeah, there was a Toby and a little Toby. Oh, yeah. He just died of tuberculosis. LAUGHTER Tumor-berculous. LAUGHTER A French anthropologist came to examine them. He said Jenny was very depressed. And Billy turned away whenever he was offered money. A classic sign of someone not doing well. Yeah. That's a great doctor. He's like, well, he failed that test. R.A. stopped using their names in show pamphlets because he didn't want people to know how many had died. Though the press was now assumed that Billy and Jenny would just hook up, even though they hated each other. You mean they had a whole, like, will they, won't they, sort of Ross, Rachel sort of thing? Yeah, it's like a Ross, Rachel and friends. What's going to happen with Billy and Jenny? Come on. Attention. But Billy was a ladies' man when everyone... I always thought that Billy was a woman in this story. I have not been following as closely as I thought I was. I was like, now there's two women left. This is very progressive. I was like... And we're going to raise little Toby. The first gay aborigines. Gaboriginals. But Billy was always looking for a wife. Whenever he saw a young girl he liked, he would say, you and me, me and you. Are you just now reading Bon Jovi lyrics? Bon Jovi. Oh my God. Reporters wrote about how they should, a speculation that Billy and Jenny had killed Toby, and that's why she was single, and that they ate him to hide the evidence. Look! What? I got nothing. No, come on, he's delicious. It's a Toby Lorone. One reporter commended them for washing. I hope you're booing me and not the indigenous people in this story. Right? Every boo we hear is a boo against them. Another reporter commended them for washing daily with soap. Way to go! Amazing what you do! He said they were better than the Sioux Indians who were really pigs. Okay, I feel like I could talk openly with you guys. About other freak tribes. Sioux, more like sewer. Anyway, you guys are phenomenal. Just soaping and eating and breathing. It's fun to watch. Your wheezes are just so cute. Sick little hamsters. Things somehow turned around. The three continued to tour Europe, and a reporter spoke to Billy, and he said that they all wanted to continue touring. Billy even came up with a new routine. Now I feel like they're one of those bands where all the original people have left. It's like one guy from Little River Band who played the vice, and you're like, where's Little River Band? No, you're not. I still want to be on the road. I've got no other options. Oh, these guys are the Wiggles. There's like one left like, I've got a mortgage. I speculated on the stock market more than the others. Even Dorothy is out. I can't fucking wake up to. The Glasgow Evening News reported that Billy discharged half a dozen boomerangs fast, one after the other, so that they all circled in the air like so many birds. That sounds fucking awesome. Sounds so fucking cool. Doesn't it? They should have a Marvel movie about him. Boomerang Billy. We'll work on that. Coming back soon. In Glasgow, they were examined by a doctor. Billy was immune to tuberculosis, while Jenny was symptom free, and the young boy was becoming sick. It had been three years since they had left their home. They went to Moscow next and were greeted with the headline, The Maneaters Have Come. That's all papers. But this is still a good fucking tour. Do you know what I mean? Now they're in fucking Moscow. Now they're seeing shit. They are like pussy rioting. Who is their fucking agent? I need to get on this shit. RA. RA, yeah. It was actually RA. Don't sign with him though, I did. Nightmare. It was nightmare. The article said that the reason they had not eaten RA was because he was too thin. So the Russian press accurate as always. Well they ask the questions, you know. Oh hey, is that cannibals? This is my accent. This is my accent. I'm going with it. Go. Is that cannibals? Wow. Yeah, Spanish requires, if they're cannibals. Is that cannibals? If they're what? Sorry, you said cannibals. If they're cannibals. Now this is like a not bright guy. Right? No, I have no confidence with my public speaking. You know, you've got an accent like Big Toby used to have. I'm a big fan. Now I pour up. Eventually. Have you met my wife? Sorry, did you have a question sir? It's nice to meet you wife. My wife, well I don't know, why you know it here? Tony, I... Sorry, where are you from? Too skinny, too skinny. Don't say I don't try for you. That should be animated like a werewolf turning from human to werewolf. A reporter turning into Borat. It's happening. It happens again now. So they left Moscow and they went back through the south of Europe, through Italy, and then ended up in London in 1887. And there, RA decided to end the tour. They went to New York. They are said to not have wanted to return to Australia, but RA made them. Records show that RA Cunningham boarded a ship to Sydney on March 10th, 1888. And there's a record of him taking a steamer from Brisbane to Townsville on April 14th. But there's no paper trail for Billy, Jenny, or Toby. Little Toby. A few months later, RA gave an interview to a paper in Melbourne and said he had returned them to their homeland. And that's where the tale of those Aborigines ends. Nine became three and they were returned. Next! Oh boy. What's up? Alright, signed another contract with P.T. Barnum. This time for Samoans. Oh fuck. What? What? They're bigger. That's the problem with sequels. They always fucking miss the point. It's always more explosions. It's gotta be bigger. It's gotta be bigger, right? Oh, we need more transformers. The store's got a brother. The Samoans negotiated a three-year contract for nine Samoans. He would cover their expenses and pay them $12.50 a month. At the end of three years, he would return them all to Samoa. Yeah, uh-huh. All of them. Sure. Every living one of them. All one living of them. They were a hit in America. Oh yeah. Of course they were. By the time they made it to New York, they were eight. Trump's running for president. What? Huh? We're down to eight. Wait, wait. And what? Sorry, sorry. Sorry. You guys were talking when you did that. What happened? Well, they went to New York. When they got there, they were eight. A minute ago, where were they? Samoa? Yeah, they were... Don't Samoan that joke. Another died when they reached Belgium in 1890, a third days later in Cologne. In Berlin, a wealthy woman talked two of the Samoans to leaving the group and hanging out with her. I mean, I guarantee you that pitch was just that simple. She's like, do you just want to hang out? They're like, yes, for sure. Yes, absolutely. Anything. Oh, you betcha. Yeah. Yes. Do you have tobacco license? If you want it, we have a ton of it. If you don't need it, but we're overloaded. She was seen driving around town with them in her carriage, but after a while she got bored of them and bought them tickets home on a ship. R.A. sued her for $100,000 for the, quote, loss of his savages. Well, you know... I think that's a... Yep. That's a thing you can... In the case... Yeah. Man v. Savage. Nothing came of the case. By the time R.A. returned to New York, he had five Samoans. On the trip home, he borrowed $41 from each Samoan and... Sorry, they're slowing him? Hang on. He's passing the hat around to the fucking Samoans? Yeah. How are they... What? That was all their money. He never paid it back. I just need a... I need a... Just for me to... I need a little something. A little... At that point, he gave them to another circus agent. R.A. said, quote, I've got all out of them that I could. Now you take them and see what you can do. Also not a great pitch. Yeah. If you're offloading some Samoans. Well, they're the fucking worst. No, I'm going... So, how much? Best offer. A new agent took them out and one quickly died. He then abandoned the Samoans on a New York street. What the fuck? How? Wait. Hold on. How did that happen? No, but hold on. That's what... That's what you do with Samoans. In America, you just throw them on the street. When you say abandoned, do you mean like he was like, hey guys, this has been... But you're going to have to find your own wife? Or is he like... He's like, I'm going to get a bagel. He probably was like, yeah, I'm going to go get a juice. Hey guys, is that the naked cowboy? What is naked... Hello? Hey, where the fuck? Hey, what the fuck? Hey, what the fuck? Hey, wait a minute. But a journalist found them who recognized them. And they were put... It's pretty easy to recognize them. Are you the Samoans? You are, right? They were put on a train to head out west where they would get on a ship and be returned to Samoa. One died on the train trip. The other three made it home. You guys are like shocked every time. Well, Dave, to be fair, at some point we're thinking somebody's not going to die. So they went back to Samoa. Nine left, three returned. R.A. Cunningham returned to Australia in 1882. Good, finally. He was back to recruit a second group of Aborigines. How is that even possible? He arrived in Townsville in June 1892, but knowing who he was, Queensland authorities tried to make things difficult for him. Wow. If you're too bad for Queensland, I tell you not to eat hook. The government said the Aborigines must understand what they're signing up for with R.A. and he had to put down what was basically a security deposit for humans. It's amazing that it's not a moral thing. And no, the money. No, we're going to need a deposit. Look, we're not going to take the money off your credit card, but you will need to put it in your P.M.A. and we're going to have a $100 hold. You'll see the whole let your capital release it once they're back. When they come back, you can have your money back. It's fine. I mean, you're not going to do anything with them, right? You're not going to break them. So it took him a month this time, but he did set sail again with eight Aborigines. Unfortunately for R.A., the boat was full of religious types, and they were very upset with what he was doing. And below deck, the Aborigines were told by fellow passengers that they would not survive in the U.S. That looks fucking good. So they're not happy right now. Why? But in San Francisco, they sold out of theater. All right, so they're fucking selling out shows. I don't know why you guys are all bummed out right now. I mean, I've got to be honest, it does remind me of the difference. Like, here's the thing. Like most of the audience are really like, this is a horrible story, but I keep getting distracted by the fact that they're doing a good tour and they're selling out. It is, honestly. I know. It is hard. Like, they're doing good, you know. That's hard. Selling tickets. Signing merch. Who should I make this bone out to? But these, I mean, we all compromise is my point. You know what I mean? Like, we all make compromises to get ahead. It's that depiction of like, if they're backstage being like, these gummy bears, what are you talking about? This is not what we ordered. Well, I mean, like, you know, the Beatles did all those hard yards in fucking Berlin, playing like 10 hours a day and stuff. Yeah, with Tony Sharer. But that's getting their money in, their time in, right? And maybe they're like, oh, well, maybe this will lead to something bigger. You know? If we just picture that they're playing new stuff, I think it takes a fun turn. I know you love the Didgeridoo stuff. Can you sound off my new album? That sounds like the Didgeridoo stuff. These aborigines were different than the last group, though. They insisted they perform in their street clothes, not their supposed native garb, and they seem to be enjoying themselves. Cunningham wrote a friend, I have not made much money out of the venture yet on account of the rainy weather. The blacks are well and happy as they ought to be, seeing that they stop at fine hotels and do the block dress like dudes. They're as jolly as clams in high water, and you would smile to see them cruising around the city in the height of fashion with polished, patent leather boots on and big cigars stuck in their mouths. Well, uh... Right, okay, so... They're dressed nice. They're just dressed nice, and they're... They have cigars. Okay. They're cruising around. They're aristocratic. Well, back then dudes were like guys who dressed fancy, like a Greg Barron. The shows were being negatively affected by the aborigines seemingly somewhat cosmopolitan look. They are becoming divas. R.A. said they were too civilized. Oh, it's affecting the act. Yeah, totally. He then brought on a business manager, Frank Frost. I bet this guy will be the worst. Uh, the tour hit San Bernardino where one of them passed away. Our... Guys, guys, they're just gonna keep dying. I mean, I don't know anything, but they're... Let's not get overly invested in these guys right now. We can't go through that emotionally. It's like watching a Civil War movie and you guys going, oh my God, another one died. This is not going well. I like that they connected to the story. I feel like it's right, right? Oh, yeah. No, there's a lot of... Now back to the jokes. That's good. That can go on that journey. I've just been through this journey a lot, and it'll shred you. I say it because I care. You're like the person who buys your kid a kitten and goes, this will die in your lifestyle. Sorry, I probably should have brought that up a little more organically. Yeah, and there's no Santa. You most likely won't outlive this. You have a question? So, again, they are invited to join P.T. Barton's circus. But they weren't the same draw that Tubbo and his group had been. Three more. They weren't the Aboriginals. Bad finger. Three more died on the tour. Jesus. It should be called the Die Tour. But Ari continued on. They spent a long time in New York City where they experienced true cold for the first time. Now finding a place for them to perform with enough room for the boomerangs became a problem because it's so cold out. They went to the Bryant Park Hotel to perform. One of the women was missing, clearly ill, said reporters. The reporters arrived and recognized Ari from his days with the Samoans. One said in front of the crowd, This is the same man who brought the Samoans to this country in 1889 and deserted them. They asked if the Aboriginals were being paid. Ari responded that they don't know what to do with money. So he's clearly concerned about his reputation a little bit. Jesus Christ. So now Dottie's on her deathbed and the Aboriginals do not want to go to Europe, especially after what they've heard from reporters. So Ari leaves them with Frank Frost and just takes off. Then Frost signs them up for another tour with Barton and Bailey Circus. In August, Tom came down with pneumonia in Minnesota and he passed away. Now, there's three, there are four Aboriginals left. A woman named Jenny and three men named William. Just three Bills and a Wendy? Fine, everything's fine there. Bill, Bill, Bill. I remember Jenny though, she's from Northern Australia, Jenny from the Rock. So the circus tour ended and they had to find a way to survive. They lived in New York City boarding houses and picked up occasional work at dime museums. Then, then Frost began a sideshow of the group at Coney Island, New York. Yeah, that's the correct response. The Aboriginals gave lackluster performances, partly because they were forced to do their show indoors in a tent and there was not much of an audience. And they're dying. Right, also a bunch of them had died. They're all dying. And the appeal of seeing Aboriginals dropped to a new low. Then a man from Hawaii named Palini Pakaki came across the situation, decided to start a campaign to save them. First he contacted the British ambassador and explained what was happening, saying the Aboriginals were rewards of the government of the colony of Australia. And the ambassador sent someone to investigate and he questioned them. They did say they wanted to go home. Pakaki contacted the press, the New York Journal wrote a story with the headline, Held in Slavery on Coney Island. So the heat is on, but the British government did not want to pay for their passage. Well, they don't have a lot of money. Cool as always, the British. Nah, they'll be alright. Nah. Nah. Nah. No. Yeah, no. Thank you. What I love the most about that is the fact that, like, you know, when you tell your terrible stories on the dollop about America, when you tell them terrible stories about Australia here, the only thing that gets me through these terrible stories is the thought they weren't really us or Americans, they were British people. Right? Yep. Yep. Yeah. So, the US authorities did not want to take legal action because they thought Frost would just dump them in the street. So, then Frost just took them to Europe. Well, three of them. William was now on his deathbed. Not that William, the other one. Yeah, not the William we were attached to. The other one. And the third one, still okay. Now, since they were adamant that they wanted to go home and not to Europe, we can pretty much conclude that Frost told them they were probably going home and then took them to Europe. So, they found themselves in Germany. There, Frost worked with a German showman, Hermas. What? His name was Hermas? Fuck, the Illuminati's in everything. But now they weren't doing shows, they were just in a small tent where people would come in and look at their tattoos and leave. They are fun and this shit is... Yeah, this is sad. Now, in Copenhagen, RA suddenly shows up, saying that the Aborigines are his and that he put down a deposit on them. I mean, that's true, though. It's true, it's true. You guys are saying, oh, factually true. Your government had to put down a deposit. It's tough as it is to say RA is right. We're not saying it's morally right, but in the court of Judge Judy, he would... Get out! Now! And then they tell him something. And this is where it gets a little weird, but... Sorry, this is where it gets a little weird? You guys, he didn't get the deposit back, and you guys turned that into billions of dollars with investment. It's what is keeping your country afloat. Now we don't know how to feel. RA said Frost had stolen them away and... Stolen humans. And he tried to take Frost to court, but again, not resolved. He keeps trying the court thing. And then they just took off in Europe again on tour. RA was next heard of in Canada living in his mother's house. He wrote a friend saying that he wanted to get his hands on some Eskimos. Imagine being his mom. So why don't you... Are you thinking of doing anything else maybe? Well, it's just you've done the people thing. Actually, there's a new... A lot of people are loving this new sort of... People are doing taxes. You heard of these tax things? They might not be around yet, but still, anything but what you're doing. So maybe try something else. Hey, mom. Hey, mom. Hey, mom. Have you heard of Eskimos? Tell me. Yes. Let's get some. We'll put them in a wagon and we'll just take them around and charge people money to look at them. And we'll put fish in their mouths. I feel like you're foreshadowing a little strongly. One of the Williams died somewhere out on tour in Europe. That was his Jenny. I feel every time. As a William, I feel every one of these Williams. It's harder. So it's just Jenny and one last William. Somehow they made their way to London. They were now alone. Frost had completely abandoned them. They were destitute. The police and charitable organizations would not help. Well, why would a charity help them? That's the charitable thing. And after some time, the government finally paid their fare back. They were met by Townsville police where they landed. Why? To give them back their deposit. Thank you. Because here in Australia, they discovered a new set of laws had been enacted. From now on, they would be controlled by the Aboriginals Protection and Prevention of the Sale of Opium Act of 1897. You know, that act has a funny twist in it. You know, my favorite thing about that was, like, even back then we were stopping the boats and they had aboriginal people on them. Yeah, so they went to live on a reserve, just like they always wanted. Yeah, uh-huh. Just like... R.A. Cunningham wrote to a friend in San Francisco. He'd gone to get some ex-skemos, but it had not worked out. He didn't... He wasn't able to get his ex-skemos. Eskimos. Uh, he now wanted... He was into it, but the only guy was that Inuit. He said, Esky, no. I've got a million. No, that's all of them. They're just not that... They're just not Inuit to you. Inuit. Anyway. Uh, he now wanted three... He wanted $3,000 from his friend to go get some Hawaiians. Aye! This is getting... Hawaiians! Quote, say six girls and two men, their hula dances startling and novel. Didn't happen. June 18th, 1902, R.A. showed up at Hogan's Undertaking in Cleveland. He had come to see his old friend Tambo. Hogan... Hogan took him to the Western Reserve Medical College where the mummified body was kept. They did keep Tambo! I call keeping Tambo, dude. This is tall guy all over again. All right, looked at the body for a few moments and then said, poor old Tambo. He then told Hogan, I am too old to go after freaks now. I went after Eskimos two years ago and froze my legs from the knees down. Poor guy. I am not well now and won't be for some time, but I'll never forget Tambo and his cannibal friends. They weren't even fucking cannibals! They'd steal knives from the table and fight amongst themselves over strangers. Once in a while they'd go after me. They're like cattle. They followed one around, ate what was given them and never showed delight except when they had fish or candy. By the way, they weren't having knife fights. They were playing That's Not a Knife. Wait, they were only fighting fish or candy, did you say? Yeah. Okay. So Swedish fish to them would have been like... Nothing was ever heard from Ari Cunningham again. Recently, Rosalyn Poignant found a photo from a 1905... A 1905 of an aborigine man playing with a puppy. He has a big smile on his face. It was taken on Pawnee Bill's Wild West show tour in the US. The man is clearly William. The William did not make the trip from New York to Europe with the rest of the Williams. So he was out there on a Wild West show. Seemingly happy. Compared to his friends. Those Wild West shows were not like... That would actually be an okay life. They all were like performers and they were... No one there would... Sure, that beats your culture. Well, no, it's better than going around and fucking sitting in a tent in Germany. Watching everyone die on trains. Look. He's created a low bar. You're not a man till all your friends have died on a train. You've always said that. In 1993, J.C. Smith's funeral home... Yeah, 1993. 1993? Hard to grunge. Let it do it. 1993. This is when they get into grunge. Tambo in the tambourines. Seattle. J.C. Smith's funeral home in Cleveland, Ohio closed. The staff was clearing out the building when they found the mummified body of Tambo. Oh my god. Oh my god, are you serious? I mean... Is this weekend at Tambo's? More human, please. Not another body human. The staff was clearing out the building when they found the mummified body. Tambo was finally brought home to Australia in 1994, about 110 years after he left for the USA. He was buried in a traditional ceremony led by Walter Palm Island, a descendant of Tambo on Palm Island. His family... He went back to his family and they buried him the way he should be buried. Wow. 1983. That's nice. The fucking original boy from Oz. We gotta wrap out, right? Yeah, we gotta wrap out, but how do you guys feel? You've been fucking seriously dolloped. Is that what you're doing now? At the end, you've been dolloped. Y'all just got dolloped, Joe. Oh, gotta feel weird tonight. That was supposed to be a better show. I apologize, but the history is fucked up. Are you doing stand up? What's happening right now? I was walking around. No, we want to thank everybody for coming out. We'll be out there signing stuff and taking pictures, whatever anyone likes. Whatever you like. Downstairs. Thank you so much, guys. We appreciate it. Thank you. If there's sales downstairs, that's where we'll be. Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollar Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv, August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there. Or join me the next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas. If that doesn't work for you, join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th.