 Hey. Hey. Hi, my name is David. I am a host of a podcast. Oh, God. It is an American history podcast. Sure. And each week, I- Dave, slow down. Dave. Dave. Read a story to my friend. Yeah. I'm going to read a story to my friend. Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. Does not know the pace of the show. No, I do. While you're talking like Christopher Walken. We are working at a pace. You sound like Christopher Walken trying to sound like a regular person. Hello. That was my Christopher Walken. That's not good. God, do you want to look at a dude? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. Nice to meet you, my friend. No. No. October 13th, 1902. Ooh. Dyslexic Halloween. Oh, yeah. I'm going to be a little bit of a weird guy. Harry Perpone.something. Harry Perpone. Sure. Was born in Muncie, Indiana. Perpone. From Muncie. He had a younger brother and an older sister. His sister died of tuberculosis when Harry was a teenager. What dolep does not start with someone dying when the main subject is a child. I think it's an important thing that happens to a lot of these people. Harry's dad Joe was a woodworker in a carriage factory. Okay. Yeah, it's just like a standard job back then. Yeah. Putting together wood. Carriages. Putting wood on carriages. Yeah. It was a big carriage time. Harry graduated from school in the eighth grade and was considered to have an above average intelligence. Sorry, what do you mean he graduated? He was done with school? I think that was the moment he was done with school. At eighth grade? I couldn't find any indication of him continuing on with school, but I feel like he was like, okay, I got enough. See, that's how we should be graduating them. We are basically anyway. Yeah. So by 1920, Harry was working in an automobile plant. Okay. So automobiles are fucking happening. Sure. That's right around when he started his nuclear path. Oh my God. Crime. Yeah, interesting. August 1921, Harry was arrested for carrying a concealed weapon. All right. During his arrest, he picked up a severe head injury. Oh, from, okay. Yeah, that I think that's pretty, I mean, you've heard of cops. Sure. So I think they were like, oh, I don't like what you're doing. Did they have to show cops back then? Yes. This, 1920 was the first year of cops. He's accused of stealing a buggy. Yeah, this way, but snapper. Yeah. He spent 10 days in jail and was then sent to the state hospital. He had problems with his eyes, experienced dizziness and complained of headaches. At an inquest in September, his mother said he was different than before. So he really got his fucking head hit. He got rocked. So they, I mean, the cops were like, watch your head when you get into the buggy. Or did they just start to notice that he was different after the here he was sullen and suspicious of things and was now prone to outbursts. He also went through periods of insomnia and became obsessed with guns. Been there. Done that. Can't sleep. Gonna polish my rifle. Just got to clean the side off. Count, counting shotguns, counting shotguns before I go to bed. She sleep last night? No, I was too busy sniffing my weapons. Yeah. How are you scared? Yeah. During his stay in the mental hospital, he was diagnosed with what would later be called disorganized schizophrenia. Disorganized schizophrenia. It's not organized. I guess sounds very hodgepodgey because they put disorganized in front. So I think they're, I think what they're doing was taking a bunch of different shit and classifying it as one thing because now today disorganized schizophrenia is not right thing. It's not in the DSM. It's not like I was going to say. Yeah. So it was like a bull. It was one of those bullshit. Yeah. No, all the, all the other stuff. This guy named Tom inside of my head said to make my desk messy. Okay. That's very disorganized. The most prominent feature of Harry's form of schizophrenia is paranoia and strange or inappropriate emotional responses like inappropriate laughter. Sometimes they just have, they just have a complete lack of emotion. Either way, Harry had it. The symptoms usually developed very rapidly and as an added bonus, he was obsessed with guns as we said, mentioned that he was obsessed with guns. Yeah. And now we're just adding maniacal laughter to that maniacal laughter. So he's the Joker and then he is the Joker. Okay. At some point, Harry was released from the mental hospital. I couldn't find any reason why he was released. Bad. Bad. Yeah. Bad idea. Back then it seemed like if you went in, you're fucking in baby. You're too disorganized. Get out of here. By January 1922, he was roaming around Indiana. He was handsome. He was, nickname was handsome Harry. Uh, Perpon. That was his crime name. Yeah. Like there's babyface Nelson and all those guys. He was handsome Harry. Now it should be laughing Harry. Laughing handsome Harry. Yeah. Uh, he was soft smoke and bright and a natural born leader. Did I mention that he liked guns? You mentioned he liked guns. I feel like that's going to be important, but why is he like, he's not a, he couldn't be, how is a schizophrenic person a solid leader? I think that he had the like lack of emotion, you know, kind of, it didn't mean that's why that's why it's not schizophrenia. It was back then that's schizophrenia. It doesn't even necessarily schizophrenia. It's not this way we think of it. It was a different thing that is now gone. So he was like cool and collected and he probably had no emotions, which made him a leader. Like when all the shooting is going on, he's like, all right, let's go do that. Okay. I said he liked guns, right? You mentioned that a bunch of times actually like a ton of times. Really? Yeah. A lot on January 2nd, he stole a car, drove to green castle and robbed cook hardware store, stealing nine handguns. Okay. I like that the hardware store used to have that many handguns. That's where they always went for guns. She's tons of guns. Yeah. Not that we're far off that now. Make it sound like we're like they're in cabinets or something. You could go to a grocery store, get guns in America right now. I would like a Big Mac fries and a couple of handguns. Just the sunblock, the fishing lure and a Uzi and then this gum impulse, impulse by gum by Oh bullets. Oh look, Scott from the Kardashians is going into rehab. You know, the big one, the giant one, the big one. Want to put a hole in a store. Yep. Five days later in Indianapolis, a Mr. And Mrs. Divine saw Harry trying to steal their car as it was parked in front of the Indianapolis water company. Was this the time when, I mean, I'm dreaming, I'm hoping that this was the time when you still had to like crank a car and get it going. Damn it. No, no, we were because that would be the funniest robbery. Those car robberies would be so fun to watch. You know what you'd have to do? It's so easy. I would be the greatest carjacker of all time back then. Will you wait until you wait until the guy's done cranking it and then you hop in it and fuck it back. Or you go forward, just run him over. It's the easiest crime ever. That's very true. That's the move. I'm picturing a dude is like, my arm hurts. And they're like, oh, come on, hurry. We've only got 20 minutes to get him. You're instead the guy's just like, all right, well, she's humming. Good Lord. All right. So Mr. And Mrs. Divine were in a butcher shop and they ran out to stop Harry. Mr. Divine rushed over to the driver's side to pull Harry out. And at that time, Harry told Divine to let him go since, quote, I'm out of work. It's interesting. Interesting. Interesting. I know I'm trying to steal your car, but I don't have a job. Sorry. I thought you had work. I don't. Well, now please take my car. The two men struggled. Okay. Harry then pulled out a gun and aimed it at Mr. Divine's stomach. Oh boy. Mr. Divine pushed the gun down and Harry shot him in the leg. Mrs. Divine then moved in and smashed Harry over the head with a roast with a roast with like just bought from the butcher. Jesus. They were in a butcher shop. Still, she bought a roast, grab a cleaver and she came out with it in her hand because they saw him see in the car. So she used the only weapon she had available, which was a giant piece of meat. You're roasted when he falls. You just got roasted. She wasn't a giant Austrian. You're roasted. Honey, stop that. He's roasted. Okay. I don't, it's not sexy to me when you do the, how do you like it? That guy. I don't. And I'm not attracted to you. Okay. Come fuck me. I can't. Okay. Get in me. Hmm. Wow. That's the worst thing we've ever done on this podcast. At that point. So after she hit him with the roast, other men came over and helped hold them until the cops came. Okay. They just like beat him with like cold cuts and cheeses and stuff. Yeah. They put him in. Yeah. Someone help me. This is right when Slim Jim's came out. Here, I'll put this bratwurst in his mouth. Put the cheese in his ass. All right. That's the weird guy. Sir. Seriously, put this cheese in his ass. Did you even know he did anything? What? Put this cheese in your ass too. I saw him suggesting that to people down the street. Putting it in my ass. He doesn't know there's been a robbery. Welcome to food street. Jesus Christ. Uh, Harry was taken to a jail in a Tara hot or how, but I looked it up and they said hot was also a pro. Yeah. Uh, he was charged with attempted auto theft. The good thing about being done with them, you're not going to get any guff from me. No, someone from like someone from Indiana will not give me shit online at all. Yeah. Uh, he was charged with attempted auto theft and battery with intent to kill. Okay. While he was there, he tried to escape by sawing through the bars of his cell. Okay. But he failed. How do you hold school old school soft? Cause it takes a long time to saw through your bar. Well, that's the only way to fail. Okay. Yeah. That's the only, it's going to take a while. How does he saw through it? You get a, you get a file from where a buddy will bring it. A buddy will bring it in a cake or whatever. Yeah. I mean that really, there's no way they going to realize no guys bring other guys cake in jail. People are still doing it to this day. But I think, I think the cake in a, in a, the file on a cake thing, even though it's like a cartoon thing, I bet it was real at some point. That's why. Oh yeah. Oh, for sure. It had to work a couple of times on March 12th, 1922. He was sentenced to two to 14 years in prison. That's quite an estimate. Yeah. They were there. You could get out in a couple like, you know, a six to your life. In may 1923, the governor rejected his request for clemency. Part of this was probably due to the fact that the superintendent of the prison wrote that Harry was quote as wild as a March hair, not a hair on a head, like a rabbit hair in a March in March. Wild as a March hair to me, that sounds like he's fucking a lot, but I guess there might've been a different meaning for hair back then. Like maybe they ran a lot or March part. Well, I think that in March and March, they're really like, yeah, they got to be Randy in March, right? They're looking to fuck spring. Spring is when the hormones bubble. He didn't want Harry out there fucking. Wow. Okay. Yeah. All right. At the same time though, his mother was doing everything she could to get him released telling everyone about Harry's mental illness. And on March 6th, 1924, it worked. Harry was granted parole. Okay. He moved in with his parents and worked at his father's sand and gravel business in Brazil, Indiana. That's fun to name a place. Brazil and Indiana. Right. But that's where you're going. Brazil. Brazil. Oh, that's going to be so far. Yeah. I'm going there for the carnival. It's 50 miles from Notre Dame. It's the real carnival. Supposed to be a nightmare. Yeah. There's a lot of carnies. There's a lot of carnies. You throw stuff, try to pop a balloon. Anyway. Okay. Okay. Um, by, uh, so that didn't last long the working with the living with the parents and working thing. He really enjoyed crime. You know, when you got, when you got a gift. Yeah. Uh, by November, 1924, he was living in a boarding house run by a well known madam in Kokomo, Indiana. He ran with other ex cons and was suspected by police of running a gang that was robbing banks. Okay. Which is exactly what he was doing. Cool. In November, the gang hit a bank in Marion. The gang was very well organized, knew the situation, the surroundings and worked with clockwork precision. Have you ever seen a point break? Did she talk about the ex presidents, bro? That's what I thought. Utah. Give me two. Yeah, that's exactly it. The next robbery was in Lebanon and see another city in what's going on in Indiana. They're like, we're also, I'm going to go to the Bahamas down the street. The next robbery was in Lebanon. Uh, this time it was a hardware store and a shitload of guns were taken as well as 50 boxes of ammunition. Jesus Christ. They're ready to go. I mean, they took a shitload of guns. The next day a bank in Upland was robbed again, very precise, but this time the cops had their descriptions because right before the robbery, the gang stopped to ask directions from two sheriffs. What? That is brash. It's not. That's really, you know, I will say, I will say as a guy who's been on drugs in public before, if there's a cop, yeah, you talk to them. You, well, you don't move away. You don't do the thing where you're like, turn left hard. Right. You go, keep walking. Yeah. You know, maybe bring it up, keep it cool. Even though maybe the trees are moving and smoking in your head. Maybe this wasn't the best idea though. Probably not the best idea. Cause now, uh, now the cops knew what they look like. Sure. Um, and so, uh, members of the gang started getting arrested. First was James Robbins who was arrested because he was flashing around a large amount of cash. Hmm. That's a tell. Look at all this money I have. Where did you get it? I didn't have money yesterday. Now I have a lot. Where did you get it? I have a lot of money. Where did you get the money? I got some money. Everybody think he robbed a bank. La la la. Uh, he confessed to one robbery then rolled on his fellow gang members. Robbins said they had all met in the Indiana state reformatory. So they all met in fucking jail. Right. But the robberies, uh, weren't done yet. In March, 1925, four men robbed a bank in new harmony. One employee was hit over the head with a gun when he couldn't open the safe. I like that. He like, cause he couldn't, he wasn't like, he was probably, it was the guy shaking with the keys. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. Now cops all over the Midwest were on the lookout with, uh, and they had orders to shoot to kill. Five days later, a bank in Kokomo was hit. Four days after that, another one in Laketon on April 2nd, 1925, Harry and two other accomplices were arrested in Detroit in an apartment. Once again, it was because one of the other guys had been flashing around a lot of cash. Good God. I have so much money. You guys, so much money says a lot about where we are. I have money. Yeah. Um, they were sent back to India. We do the same thing now. Yeah. Well, yeah, that's what you do. Yeah. They were sent back to India and we're told they were facing charges of, uh, being habitual criminals, which meant that they could get life sentences in Cuba, which was down the street. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah. Oh, cause, uh, cause everything's named foreign countries there. Gotcha. Remember from two minutes ago, I stopped listening. God damn it. During their stay in the Howard County jail, Harry and fellow gang member Ted skier attempted to escape while they were in a court hearing. A Pinkerton detective went to their cells and found that one of the bars and skewers cell had been cut through and Harry's cell, a bar was almost cut through the cells. Couldn't finish bar. You know, he's tired. The cells were then searched and 10 saw blades were found. And they, all they were getting done was like one bar 10. But what is your, what is your plan? How would you plan on doing that? Getting out? Yeah. Like you have to saw you open a window. It is the wind. It is the window bar thing. I want, I don't know if it's the window bar, but you just open it up and then I, and then you go, it just doesn't seem, it seems like someone will notice your project. Harry's parents had an attorney to represent their boy. When put on the stand, Harry confessed to robbing a bank and said that all the evidence found was his not skewers. Okay. He was convicted and sentenced to 10 to 21 years. He wasn't big on cooperating with the prison authorities though. He gave them the wrong name. When he got there, he wouldn't recognize the warden. He wouldn't make a statement. He refused to have his picture taken and he spit on a guard. So he's not recognizing the warden is my favorite. Yeah. Can I help you? Oh yeah. Hey sir. Do I know you? Have we met? Prisoner 4106. I got one of those faces. Maybe that's the thing. Prisoner 4106. Look at me. I am warden Jefferson. Nice to meet you. Never met you before. You look familiar. We've met 20 times. Huh? I see you every day. It's great to meet you finally. Okay. I would like, I would like that. What was the name? Jefferson. Can you beat this guy? Huh? Can you beat, can we beat this guy? Wait a minute. Get the one bar I took down. John Dillinger was born on June 22nd, 1903 in Indianapolis, Indiana. Oh shit. His dad was a grocer and quite the disciplinarian. Okay. He lived by the phrase, spare the rod and spoil the child. You know what I mean? Give it up. What does that mean? Beat the kid senseless. Okay. John's mom died when he was three years old. Good. Every fucking one. Yeah. His dad remarried and at first John hated his stepmother, but then they grew close over the years and eventually. Oh god. Oh fuck sir. Fell in love and had a three year relationship. Knew it. Knew it. Fuck your stepmom. Yep. I mean if you're mad at your dad, fuck your stepmom. Seriously. Word for me. He was always in trouble as a teen. He was getting in fights and being arrested for petty theft. He quit school to work in a machine shop. You may as well say I'm going to jail. Yeah. Okay. If you quit school to work in a machine shop, you should just say I'm going to be a prisoner now. Well dude, when you're in seventh grade, it's tough. It is tough. I mean you're one year away from graduating. You got a kid. You got a kid already. It's time. But John Dillinger still stayed out all night partying. So his dad moved the family to the rural town of Mooresville. Wait, this is after he'd been banging his stepmom. His dad is moving the family? Yeah. I couldn't figure out exactly when he was banging his stepmom. But yes, somewhere in here he's banging his stepmom. I don't think his dad knew about it. I'm moving the family. John was arrested in Mooresville for stealing a car. Dad was not happy. Okay. And John was pushed to join the Navy. That did not go well. Right. He deserted. Okay. He then returned home and met a lady and got married. But he couldn't keep a job and decided that being a robber was the way to go. That's a good job. Yeah. Honey, I tried the IHOP. I know. I'm going to put guns on people's faces and take money. Follow your dreams. Okay. Thank you. I love your support. I love you. He and a friend robbed a grocery store of $50. But they did it into the town. So as they ran out the door, they passed the local minister who knew them. Sorry. They literally just went into like the grocery store in their town. Yeah. And they robbed it. And there's a minister like, Hey, John, Hey, Gary, how you guys doing? Hey, we're running. Okay. So he got arrested the next day. Yeah. But how do you, sorry. It's a terrible plan. Okay. But there were disguises back then people knew what a disguise. Maybe what John Dillinger needs is some sort of mentor. Great. So now it's time for Harry to hook it up. The rest of the next day, John's dad, after talking to the prosecutor, convinced John to confess and plead guilty. Okay. Which John did, assuming his dad had worked out a deal with the prosecutor, but his dad worked out no deal, no deal. Turns out he was very surprised when he was given a 10 to 20 year sentence. What did his dad does his dad know what a deal is? I didn't give a shit. Oh, so his dad just wanted to fuck him over. Yeah. That's like, fuck this guy. Okay. Now he was in Indiana State Prison with a gentleman named Harry Pierpont. So John Dillinger wasn't happy. And he said, quote, I will be the meanest bastard you ever saw when I get out of here. Good. He also had gonorrhea when he went in. Yep. But Harry and Dillinger had that. That's what we should call it when diarrhea goes away. Gonorrhea? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. That's fair. I mean, I've got a Ria. Yeah. We were just like, how's your diarrhea? It's like, it's gonorrhea. I feel better. Pepto-Bismol. Yeah. Honoree. Honoree. Harry and Dillinger had similar similar interests like robbing banks. So you like to rob too. Like to steal money from dudes. I can't believe we're just meeting. Hey. So also other prisoners like Dillinger because he could do twice the amount of work expected in the laundry room. And he could do other prisoners work. Okay. So he was like, you know, he was fucking making shit happen in prison. Sure. So they're in prison. Harry taught John Dillinger how to really plan a bank robbery. It turns out that Harry, why would you listen to a man in a jail cell with you on how to do successful robberies? Well, that who else are you gonna listen to? The guard? Well, someone who's out on the out. Yeah. But they call prison criminal school. That's true. Like you learn all kinds of shit. All right. I was having some fun. You're right. So it turns out Harry had studied the best. He had studied Herman Lamb, a German bank robber who believed in the importance of precision, meticulously casing the bank, knowing the layout, knowing how to access vaults and mapping out escape routes. And he would do rehearsals over and over. So nothing would go wrong. Okay. Now these gentlemen really wanted to work together robbing banks. But the big problem was that they were in jail because they tried to rob banks. They got to get out Dave. Luckily Dillinger was finally paroled in 1933 and they could set their plan in motion. Okay. Harry had given Dillinger a list of easy banks and stores to hit. He also set him up with a reliable gang to get the jobs done. So Harry's still on the inside. He's in the joint. Harry's in the joint. Yeah. But Dillinger's out turning shit loose. All right. Dillinger spent the summer of 1933 on a crime spree. Fun. His gang made tens of thousands of dollars all for a good cause. Which was? To break Harry and his boys out of prison. Right. They used the money for bribery, a safe house and to buy guns and ammo. Jesus. At one point his brother Hubert, oh, there was a really close calls. At one point his brother Hubert and, and John Dillinger were driving home and Hubert fell asleep. And he ran into an, into another car on the road and then their car veered off into the woods. The people in the other cars said the two gunmen got out and walked in separate directions. Dillinger walked off with a Tommy gun after he removed the car's license plates. Okay. So he gets out of the car. He takes off the license plates and they just walks out of the Tommy gun and they're like, okay, insurance information. Sir, are you a state farm? Sir. Just that's so baller. Yeah. It's amazing. Just take the license plates off, get the Tommy gun and walk away. When police looked in the car, they found maps, a machine gun clip, a length of rope and a bull whip. Apparently John Dillinger was going to use the bull whip when he paid a visit to his former one armed attorney who had run off with a retainer. Oh wow. That is awesome. That's so, that's got Tarantino written all over it. Very specific. Just one arm. So you're going to take a bull whip. We have guns. Yeah, but I want to keep them alive for a little while. Meanwhile, the Indian estate clemency commission heard an appeal for Harry's release. Harry said he was a man of strong character and that he was a leader, not a follower. Is that what you, that's not what you should say to clemency. Neither's right. No, Hey, I'm really good at getting people to follow me and I'm a very serious gentleman. Yeah. The state produced records that explain that when Harry had been sentenced, he said he would try to escape. It was only the duty of official. It was the duty of authorities to stop him and that he made three failed escape attempts during his imprisonment. He had also received 10 punishments in prison for his behavior along with two reprimands. Okay. So clemency was denied. Okay. You can believe that they're, they're right to do that. Yeah, I agree. Yeah. On September 13th, 1933, John Dillinger drove up, ran to the prison wall and threw three loaded revolvers wrapped in newspapers over the prison wall. Extra extra. Read all about it. Uh, but they were not found by Harry instead. Two other prisoners found the gun. Oh my God. Yeah. I mean, seriously, you gotta be pretty meticulous. I thought the whole thing was planning. Where where over the wall? Yeah. Yeah. You're like, oh shit. I think they found the newspapers with guns in them. Three other prisoners were punished for the guns and put into solitary confinement. Danny McGorgian, Jack Gray and Eddie Murphy. Can you believe that? Any fucking Murphy man? What like, right? What hasn't he been in? Next, Dylan, you know, when he was in there, he was like, Roxanne, you don't have to put on a red light. Next. Dillinger managed to sneak three 45 caliber pistols into the prison's shirt factory in a barrel of thread. I mean, listen to what you just said. What? How it's like a cartoon. They the prison shirt factory right off the bat is interesting. Yeah. But then just put them just a big barrel of thread with some guns. What are you doing? I deliver thread for a living now. That's my job. You really turned the corner. I did. Harry and fellow prisoner Russell Clark told the factory superintendent that they were needed in the basement. I mean, so he walked him down there. Yeah. Naturally, of course, we're needed in a dark place away from everybody else. Okay. What's that over there? The supervisor was quickly overpowered by several prisoners prisoners in the basement. You want to double cross? Wait a minute. You lied to me. The gang then gang member Walter Dietrich ran to tell another superintendent that there was a fight. That guard then ran into a trap. Oh, man. Yeah. Now seven gang members had guns and three had clubs. A foreman came downstairs to get some supplies and he was also quickly captured. Oh, no, I don't even give a fuck. I'm here for pencils, gentlemen. Jesus Christ. So now they had three hostages and they began their long walk to freedom. But they hid their guns under shirts and slowly walked through the entire prison. The guards and other prisoners did not notice. So if I'm understanding this correctly, it's three guards and 10 dudes just walking through the prison and everyone's just like, Hey, Bob, yeah, look at that. Jimmy John, Jim John. That looked pretty cool. Look at those guys just hanging on through the prison. It doesn't matter. You could be a guard or a prisoner. You're still friendly. Everybody's good here. We're all good. When they got to the gate to a gate, one of the hostages told the guard to open the gate or they'd be killed. Okay. Hey, Larry, could you open this gate? Why? Well, this guy's gonna shoot me in the head. Yeah, I'll open it. Thank you. The gate was open. They did the next thing at the next set. They did the same thing the next gate and at a third gate, they used a steel shaft as a battering ram to get through Jesus. Now they had to get through the outer gate there. But what are the guard? What are the other guards? What do they think? They know they're under? I don't know. I don't know what they think. I like to think that they had no idea. There they beat the shit out of a guard until another guard opened the gate. At this point, they had access to the administration building and put eight prison workers in defaults. One was moving too slow. So he was shot in the leg and shoulder. Oh, that'll speed him up. Yeah. Then the warden stumbled in and now he was a hostage. I don't recognize you. Good morning, fellas. Oh, you know me now, huh? Motherfucker. Yeah, you know who I am. Right. Interesting, bitch. Fine. I'll get in the goddamn vault. They went outside and they split into two groups. One group happened upon a sheriff who was dropping off some prisoners. Wow. Bad timing. They quickly jumped on him, took his guns and three of them climbed in his car and made him drive. Oh, God. He was like, no. No. So that group had four guys, but only three got in the car. So I don't know. The fourth guy was like, I'm going to walk. My legs, you know, I can use the extras. I've been, I've been really just, I've been cooped up. Yeah, really super cooped up. I think I'm going to go for a jog. Well, joggy jog. Harry was leaving the other group. They went to a gas station and attacked the attendant, stole a car and headed west. They made it to their, uh, set up safe house. They were immediately ready to start robbing banks, knowing Dillinger had been out there casing and setting everything up. But then they learned Dillinger had been arrested four days before and he was in the Allen County jail. Go get him. And that would not do. The gang came up with a plan to get Dillinger out of jail. God. The world was also now the world is also completely different than when they went in. When they went in, it was all fucking the roaring twenties and now it's the great depression, 25% unemployment. You know, it's all, everything's gone to fucking shit. So they stole another car and took off for a different safe house. But the Indiana state police soon learned about the car theft and put up a blockade. And now the gang was speeding through the Indian roads, trying to make a getaway during the flight. A door of the car opened up and one of the gang James Jenkins fell out. Okay. They couldn't stop to get him and they had to leave him behind. Oh God. So this is a time when car doors just open up and you fall out and people like, fuck it. Yeah. Well, you know, that's what you're going to do. That's going to happen. Oh man. We lost a Jenkins. I mean, imagine. Yeah. Just falling out of car out of a car. Oh, my bad. Oh, I started to reach for something. Um, Jenkins was killed that night by a local posse. Oh God. Yeah. Uh, the gang realized they were short on funds, so they hatched a plan to rob a local bank. They hit the first national bank in St. Mary's and got away with $11,000. A female member of the gang spent the next couple of days baking and ironing the money to make it look old. The purpose, the women in the gang even have to bake money. Yeah. I mean, I have so many questions about ironing money. Are you, I think it's just to make it look war. Doesn't that make it look newer? I think it would make it straightened out. Again, baking it. I get, I guess baking it, but baking it, baking it. What about rolling it in dirt or your asshole like anything, but easy. I think dirt is a fine option. Your money smells terrible, sir. Well, it's been ironed. Harry then had a Dillinger's girlfriend brought to Ohio and set off to free him from jail. Okay. So that's nice. His lady is ladies there. Yeah. I'm sure she was a peach. The gang consisted of several men and women, including Homer van meter, who was the funny one and had the scale. The name tells you he's the funny one. Homer van meter. Hey, what am I? This candle is all like what? What? What's this a cloud knows on my ear? Yeah. Um, hey, Homer had the skill of being able to throw himself out of joint and appear to be crippled. Oh, so, so he would, oh, he could throw like he could, Oh, wow. Like legs or his hip or something out of joint and then it looks like wild. Okay. That's just helpful. That's just like a superpower. That is a superpower back then in the fucking thirties. Totally. Um, there was also Charles fat Charlie Mackley and Russell booby Clark. Booby. Yeah. A booby booby and John read Hamilton bunch of guys. So Harry and two other, you had to have a nickname. You had to. Okay. Uh, Harry and two other gang. Yeah. That was really what they said. Everyone wanted a nickname. Yeah. You know, that's why they had baby face and all that shit. Harry and two other gang members entered the jail at six in the evening and said they were Indiana state prison officials and had come to transfer Dillinger back to Indiana. Well, Dave, that can't possibly work. Why? Because it's crazy. And well, the sheriff said, okay, can I see your paperwork? Okay. And Harry was like, it's right here. Mother fucker. And he shot him in the gun. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. He actually said it's right here. And then he shot him. Here's your paperwork. Yeah. Is your paperwork. You're wrong. They then beat the sheriff just to be sure. Even though they shot him in the tummy. Right. That's the right order. Yep. The sheriff's wife and a deputy were then locked in a cell that his wife was there doing a crossword puzzle. Oh God. Uh, Barry, what's five down my stomach, something you pick, but something that can't pick you bleeding five down. Hold on. Let me look at five across five across. No, that's not even part. What are you saying? That wound is five down. The wound is five down. That's too many letters. No, I don't. Well, unless actually if that you was actually a W maybe, I don't know. Okay. So the sheriff's and his deputy were locked in a cell and the gang went off with Dillinger who was like, man, I'm happy to see you guys. Can't believe that fucking word. You guys, uh, the Indiana state police captain thought he knew of a great way to fuck with these guys. Whenever he talked to the media, he would call the gang, the Dillinger gang instead of the Pierpont gang. Oh God. He figured that would create friction in the group. Pretty smart. Nope. Harry didn't give a shit about it. And Dillinger loved it. Okay, great. Uh, but the heat was still on and the gang decided to split up and meet again in Chicago on October 14th. The Dillinger and gang member Homer van meter went to the Indiana police station in Peru and acted like they were tourists in Peru. Yeah. Indiana's got a bunch of fucking cities named after other countries. Did we like export South America at some point? Indiana is fucking ridiculous. All right. Okay. So they show up at a police station and they're like, Hey, we're here to check out your jail and who are you? Things at the station. And they're like, we're tourists. Oh, we're here to look at everything. Well, sure. The cops showed them around the station. So the criminals got a nice look at where everything was. Later that night, Dillinger, Pierpont and Dietrich raided the station for guns and bullet per vests. Wow. They got vests. The police now thought the gang had declared war on the law. Some cops thought they were trying to start an army of criminals. Yeah. The Indiana National Guard was put at the ready for whenever the state police needed them and volunteer posses formed all over the state. The gang hit a bank in green castle, Indiana on October 23rd. It was their usual precise robbery, taking just five minutes and hauling in $74,000. Shit. They were so good that not one cop at the police station across the street knew what was going on. They robbed a fucking bank across the street from a police station. They really don't give a fuck. Huge balls. Yeah. At that robbery, Dillinger refused to take the money of a farmer who had been standing in line. And he's a sweetie. He's a sweetie guy. Now the gang got a Robin Hood reputation, which was perfect during the Great Depression. Yeah. Harry would later say Trump's economic policy is exactly that's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm getting to. Yeah. Harry would later say quote, I only stole from the bankers who stole from the people and everyone pretty much was down with that. The press was covering the gangs every move coast to coast making them celebrities. How great would that be today? Fucking amazing. Just people who just stole from the bankers. I would love it if they stole all street. I would love what they stole from the Wall Street guys who just make all that fucking money and fuck everybody they just take their money. That'd be great. I'd be fine with that. Um, they planned another bank Robbie, but problems were arising in the gang. Copeland was drinking way too much and Shouse was fucking every woman alive and that was driving everyone crazy. Interesting. Yeah. Harry said they needed to drop Copeland as the driver and give the job to Shouse. So Copeland was booted out. But then Shouse said he already decided to rob a bank by himself. Oh, he's going solo. But then someone overheard Shouse trying to convince Hamilton to rob the bank with him. And so it's a total clusterfuck. Right. Uh, I don't know when we became a high school gang. It sounds fun, but we're a fucking gang of criminals, not a bunch of this, all this bullshit of like, I went around the bank with you, but now you, we just need to go out together. It's very clicky. It's very Beverly Hills 902 and oh, so they kicked Shouse out of the gang. As Shouse left, he walked outside and stole Clark's car. He's a criminal. That's awesome. It's the best thing ever. That's how you get out. That's mic drop. That is total mic drop. So, uh, and maybe don't kick out one of the guys who knows how to steal cars near the cars. Yeah. Well, can't least keep your eye like how are you getting out of here? Yeah. What are you gonna do? Why are you walking? Right. Um, uh, but the robbery was, uh, still on the morning of the big heist. They woke up and read in the paper that Copeland had been arrested. Okay. For drinking. What? Who knows? Probably. Probably. Cause he got kicked out of the gang too. So, uh, but they still hit the American trust company bank in Wisconsin anyway. Yeah. Let's go. They walked in and yelled, stick them up. So that that actually happened. Classic move. A teller on the phone did not stick them up. So they shot him. He should have stuck them up. When the teller fell to the ground, he hit a hidden alarm. He felt like that dude. That's like a diving catch. I still hit the button. Uh, two cops came in, but they were really bad at being cops and Harry jumped on one subduing him and the other one was shot. That is insane to be able to subdue two at once. No, it's crazy. The gang then cleared out the vault and took a bunch of hostages outside. They shot at a couple of cops on the way out and then got in their car and sped off a couple of blocks away. The cop hostage they had was tossed out of the car and they escaped again. Okay. Next, Harry Dillinger and Hamilton robbed a bank in Indiana. How is it? Is it, are they that they're just that good? Yeah, I think they are very good. Yeah. Cops were there again. And, but also like the cops aren't the organized national unit really yet. Like the FBI is just getting going. Like you just have to do a little research. Seems like, yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. Although I don't even know if they had the, I don't know what year the FBI started, but it's right around now. Anyway, so the cops are there again. This time Dillinger killed a cop. Oh boy. Hamilton was wounded. She was going south, right? Harry Dillinger and two other gang members headed out to West Tucson, Arizona because the heat was on. They had shit. Look, they're trying to get away from the heat. Don't go to do so. It gets very hot. They had shitloads of cash from all the robberies in the middle of the night. On January 21st, a fire broke out at the hotel Congress. Firemen went room to room, waking up the guests. But one guy on the top floor was very concerned about his luggage and didn't want to leave the building. I wonder what he had packed. The fireman forced him out later when he was outside on the sidewalk. He talks a fireman into letting him back into the burning building. How do you, I don't know. So, Hey, I got these, do you know what a kitty is? Please. I have a kitty Jose's up there. Oh Jose. Uh, when he came out, he had expensive looking bags. Three days later, the fireman saw the fireman saw a photo of Russell Clark in a detective magazine and told police that was the guy from the hotel. Okay. I just love the fact that he was reading a detective magazine. What is the, what is the detective magazine? I don't know. Only for detectives. You're a detective? Uh, no. Sounds like you might be. Here you go. Oh, thank you. I'm a detective now. Around the same time, two tourists told the police a man that looked exactly like Russell Clark had been bragging in a nightclub that it was really easy to make a living robbing banks. Interesting. So, so this guy's not a brain search. No, he's what's known as a idiot. Right. Okay. To be clear, to be clear, this guy's a fucking moron. For sure. Yep. Police investigated and realized that Harry fat Charlie Mackley and Russell Clark were in town. They figured Dillinger would arrive at any time. Mackley was arrested in a radio repair shop. Okay. Harry was stopped in his car for a routine check of his car papers and then arrested. Okay. Clark was located in a rented house and went down swinging. Literally. He, we, he, we, we made, he fought. I like it. He ended up with a lacerated scalp in the house. They found the bags. Clark had gotten out of the hotel. They contain machine guns, pistols, ammunition and bulletproof vests. But anything incriminating? The cops then waited and watched the house. Sure enough, Dillinger came walking up the path and the three cops jumped out and quickly arrested him. Dillinger said, well, I'll be damned. Fair. Fair. He was legit surprised. Right. He was legit. Well, I'll be damned. Holy moly, fellas. Look at this small world. At this point, the gang was famous, particularly Dillinger. The Fox movie Ton News brought in a camera crew from Hollywood. 2000 people swarmed the jail hoping to see Dillinger and his gang. Their meals were catered by a local restaurant and Dillinger was allowed to have his terrier puppy in jail. That's pretty cool. Local law enforcement wanted, it's quite insane. If you could have your dog in jail, it's not bad. Way better. The dog on the other end is like, what the fuck happened? What did I do? I go to your yard. Holy fuck. I was in the yard an hour ago. You ought to be fine. Local law enforcement wanted to get rid of them as soon as possible. Dillinger was sent to Indiana and the others to Ohio to face their respective murders. Right. Right. The jail Dillinger was in was called escape proof by Sheriff Lillian Holly. They're just asking for it. Three months later, Dillinger carved a piece of wood into the shape of a gun, painted it black and walked out of jail. He fucking made a wood gun. Yeah. That he painted that he painted and people like shit. He got a gun. Holy shit. He's got a really weird looking gun. So smart. Larry Dillinger's got an Ikea gun that must have been so he must have been like and I can't believe that fucking work. That's fucking crazy. I really never thought that would work. I mean, I'll tell you what I was like when I was actually like sanding that gun. Yeah, I was like, no way. And let me tell you something when I was using it. So so hard not to laugh. So God, I was so hard. They were so freaked out. Oh my God. I kept biting my tongue. I was actually biting my tongue. I literally lost a piece of my tongue. FBI records say that he actually carved a potato into the shape of a gun. A potato gun. Yeah. And painted black. Man. Dillinger went back to robbing banks and hiding out in Chicago and he got plastic surgery. What if he just got really cocky and was not like robbing them with bananas? Fuck it. I don't mean what isn't a gun to these people. I don't know what to do. So I'm going to give you all my money because this is too weird. He just paints like his thumb and his index finger black and just holds it up. It's really weird. So I'm just going to give you the money. Yeah. Watch it too. I got I got bullets in my fingernail in my figure. I think he's crazy. What is that? I just cocked it. Okay. Okay. Here you go. Thank you. He got plastic surgery done by two underworld surgeons. They had plastic surgery who had lost their license due to drug use. Yeah. What would you get back? Okay. So he got a small facelift, had moles removed and scars fixed and he filled his famous cleft chin. He finally had the cleft filled. Yeah. Finally. Then chemicals were used to burn off his fingerprints. Oh wow. So that was a thing. Yeah. And when it was over, Dillinger looked himself in the mirror and said, hell, I don't look any different than I did. It cost him like five grand. Shouse testified against Clark and Harry. Okay. He was still pissed about getting kicked out. But then he refused to testify against Mackley because he was scared after Harry's trial. Harry went toe to toe with the prosecutor in his trial while on the stand. After the prosecutor accused him of stealing over $300,000, Harry said, quote, I wish I had. Well, at least if I did, I'm not like some bank robbers. I didn't get myself elected president of the bank first. Zing. Take that, you asshole. Zing. Then the prosecutor asked, that's the kind of man you are, is it? And Harry said, yeah, I'm not the kind of man you are robbing widows and orphans. You'd be like me if you had the nerve. Does he think it's a roast battle? Does he know what's happening? He thinks it's a roast battle. Okay. In March, Harry and Mackley were sentenced to death. Clark got life. Okay. Harry got a marriage license and tried to marry his longtime sweetheart and fellow gang member, Mary Kinder. Oh, Kinder. He contacted three ministers, but none would perform the ceremony. Mackley appealed his sentence based on the fact that he'd been shackled during the entire trial with machine guns pointed at his back. So he felt he was owed something? He felt like that. That is basically- Yeah, right. That's time served. But that was rejected. On July 22nd, Dillinger was shot and killed by FBI agents as he tried to escape from a trap they had set outside a theater in Chicago. One of his own gang had turned him in for 25,000. Now Harry and the guys knew Dillinger would not be coming back to break them out of jail and they had to do it on their own. So Harry and Mackley carved fake guns out of soap. Soap guns? And painted them black with shoe polish. Jesus Christ, I mean, now we're- The guns also contained bits of cardboard, fountain pen, jigsaw puzzle, tin foil, wire, and threads from blankets. So their guns were bird's nest? What were they- What else do we got? Your gun smells really good and it's got a lot of thread coming out of it. Thank you. Is that a puzzle? That's the last piece. Shoot a puzzle bullet at him. Oh, God. Harry pretended to be sick. When his guard brought his food, Harry said he couldn't get up. So the guard came close to him and put it down. Harry then jumped up and punched the guard and whipped out his soap gun. Hey. You're going to get washed, motherfucker. Easy, pal. You ready to be clean? Yeah. Don't make me use bubbles, baby. The guard refused to give him his keys, so Harry hit him again and took the keys. He then opened all the death row cells and Mackley held other guards at bay with his soap gun. Soap gun? Quite a few prisoners declined the invitation to run, but 10 did join, including Russell Clark. There he is. The team's getting back together. They made their way through the prison until they came to a giant iron door. Then the alarm was sounded. Local police headed for the prison and guards took their positions. All the other prisoners went back to their cells except for Mackley and Harry. So now everyone's like, yeah, I'm good. I like it. It's better in there. A place to sit down in a toilet. I mean, it's a soap gun. You know what I mean? This looks like a whole like a dye thing because we have soap. Hey, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to go back to my cell and get some dove, like a nice bar of dove. And then I'll be right out here with you to fight the good fight. All right, guys. Looking forward to it. You got the Irish Spring? We're really going to kill these motherfuckers. Lever 2000s? Lever 2000. So Harry grabbed a guard uses a shield. As the guards with rifles arrived, the hostage guard threw himself against a wall and shots rang out. Mackley was hit in the head and shoulders. Harry was hit in the spine. Mackley was dead. Harry had little chance of recovery and would be paralyzed for life if he did live. Four days later, Harry's appeal to be given life in prison instead of death was denied. Let me talk about shitty timing. I know, right? Ah, it's just like bad on top of bad. Turns out the escape attempt did not help him with his appeal. Well, on October 17, Harry was carried to the electric chair. He was crying from the pain from his wounds. He had been seen crying for several days. He was strapped in the chair and his last words were today. Oh, this hurts like fuck. Holy fucking shit. What was his last words? God damn son of a bitch. Shit. Really burns. Really burns. Hurts, hurts, hurts, hurts. His last words were today I am only I am the only man alive who knows the who's and how's. Was he writing Dr. Seuss though? And the how's and who's and then the who's came and the how's said how? The how'sers and the who'sers. And as my end comes very shortly, I'll take this little story with me on the last walk. So he didn't, he was completely out of his fucking tree. That makes no sense. No, no, he's taking this to tell the story in heaven. The switch was thrown and Harry jerked for two minutes until declared dead. Harry was 32 years old. He was buried in a family plot in Holy Cross Cemetery in Indianapolis. Jesus. How about that shit? Some badass motherfuckers. That's the guy who taught Dillinger what the what was. Yeah. I mean, he's kind of the rube. And how the do. He's forgotten. Yeah, he was forgotten because Dillinger got all the press. Dillinger was what he was so hot. He was called Shiznit. The Shiznit. He was hot. What do we got? Anything? That's it. You got anything else to say? You care about anybody? I don't. I mean, I don't feel like there's a forum. We go to follow us on Twitter at the dollop. If you want to give us a suggestion for a topic, send it to the dollop podcast at gmail.com. Do not send it to Facebook. Do not send to Twitter because those are very hard to keep track of. And I would just lose them. You like it? Subscribe on iTunes. Tell your friends the right to review and subscribe on iTunes. That helps us a lot. And then remember Vancouver on December 12. Yep. And somewhere in Utah soon. Somewhere in Utah soon. All right, gag.