 Good afternoon. Hello. You are listening to the Dalip. This is a bi-weekly podcast each week, two times. I read a story to my friend. Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is about. Jose is really going nuts on a bag. Yeah, he'll really get crazy on a bag. I'm going to read it. I'm going to read it. I'm going to read it. I'm going to read it. Yeah, he'll really get crazy on a bag in the kitchen. God, you want to look good, dude? I'll do one bump. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling podcast. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. What have we done, my friend? No, no. January 16th, 1797. Okay. Where are we? London, England. Really? Well, I'm already sort of forming a character. I get it. John Heatherington I'm Heatherington, I am. was a haberdasher. Do you know what haberdashing is? I don't. The man who make clothes and stuff. Fashions for gents. On this day, after completing his latest creation, the top hat, He stepped outside for a walk. Whoa, Dave! We're clicking in. Fucking dude. He's in his fucking little fashion workshop. Who knows what happened. He's like, how about a tall hat? He just was that simple. Fucking whip that shit out. He's like Lady Gaga. At that time, John called it a silk hat. Interesting. A newspaper described that as a tall structure, having a shiny luster that was calculated to frighten timid people. Hold on. Do you think the cat's gonna jump out the window? Really? Has he done that yet? No, but he'll like... It's all fun and games. He'll be on a window sill having a good time, and then he'll turn your back and he's like climbing the screen. Well, that's dangerous. Well, they're screen climbers, cats. Okay, so say that last part again. A newspaper described that as a tall structure, having a shiny luster that was calculated to frighten timid people. Okay. It is kind of a power move. It makes you taller. As one of the greatest examples of the power of hats to date... I was hoping that would get something. Because I was pretty happy when I wrote that. John walked down the street, and women fainted at the unusual sight. Oh, shut up. He had the beetles on his head, essentially? It's 1797. A crazy hat is fucking people's minds. Women are just coming and just dropping like flies. Children screamed in terror, and dogs... No! It can't be possible! Dogs yelled. Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! This is a Michael Winslow dream. It was pretty much mayhem. Just... It's a fucking top hat frenzy, baby. It's a fucking top hat frenzy, baby. It's a fucking top hat frenzy, baby. The young son of Cordwainer Thomas, who was returning from a Chandler's shop... Hey, no questions. No idea what that is. Well, that's nowhere you buy your favorite characters from friends....was pushed down by the crowd that had gathered, and had his right arm broken. Over the top hat? Yeah, shit's getting fucking nuts. It started a... Okay. John Heatherington was then arrested by police, and... What the fuck? Okay, so, wait a minute. He... This is in the span of probably an hour? I mean, if even that, it could've just been like... He went to work, he made a top hat, he put it on, he wore it outside, women dropped like flies, kids were freaked out, a guy gets his arm broken, he runs a Chandler shop, and now this dude's going to prison? Yeah, this shit's happening. Oh, Jesus! Uh... So he's arrested by police, and taken before the Lord Mayor. Heatherington said he had not broken any law by wearing a hat. I've done nothing! It's a hat! It's just a tall one! It's just a large size! He was charged with breach of the peace, and inciting a riot. And was forced to post a 500 pound bond. Oh my God! That's a shitload of money. That's a shitload of money back then. That has to be too much for him. That's what it said in the book. Yet, all the man had done was created... He's back there, he's fine. Yet, all the man had done was created a silk covered variation of the contemporary writing hat. It had a wider brim, a lower crown, and was made of beaver. Hmm, that's interesting. But the media attention just led to a deluge of orders for top hats from John Heatherington. Rebels. Fucking press. You can't beat the press. That's like rock and roll! If he just wore the top hat out, and people would be like, Oh, that's a cool hat, nothing. But he starts a fucking riot, and people are like, I gotta get me some of that hat. It's sort of like the covering of mass shootings, too. It's exactly like that. With less death. Yeah, well, yeah. And hats aren't meant to kill. Okay, so there's two differences. Outside of that, they're identical. And the guy with the hat wasn't killing people. Okay, three little differences, but outside of that, I think... Same as a hat. It's the exact same as the top hat. Though there were... There was mostly resistance to the top hat, until it eventually caught on when Prince Albert began wearing one in 1850. Now, did he have a pierced cock? Yeah, girl. Alright, great, keep going. That wasn't the only hat that caused a riot in history. See, now that line's funnier. One of the all-time great hat riots would soon come to America. Hats were, until recently, part of a man's wardrobe. Right, yeah. Hats were basically required. If a man was seen outside without a hat, there would have to be a reason for it. Like someone would say, he was in such a frenzy, he went outside without his hat. So the only way you could possibly wear a hat is if you had to run out of your place. Yeah, if you went outside without a hat on, there was something wrong. Right. That's it. You'd walk down the street, be like, without a hat, people would be like, what happened, Jerry, what happened? Oh my God, it's a long story. Oh, my hat's not here! Hats also declared one social status. Or social hatus. A banker would wear a distinguished hum-brog, berg, a politician would don a top hat. Okay. If you didn't have a hat, you wore a cloth cap. If you didn't have a hat, you wore a cloth cap? Yeah, like a newsie kind of... Oh, right, right, I was picturing just like a cloth. Like a piece of cloth on your head? Pretend it's a hat, mate! I mean, they weren't that fucking crazy, they were close. Yeah, well, they also used to put owls on their hats. As we all know, ladies were strolling about with dead stuffed birds on their heads. Hello! It was the peak of hats. It was the peak of the hats. Also known as hat peak. Oh, man. Even the... I mean, what a crazy time... Everybody had a hat. Not only did everybody have a hat on, everybody had a crazy hat on, unless you were poor. Crazy fucking hat. If you were above poor, if you were a lady, you had an animal on your hat. And if you were a guy, you were trying to most likely intimidate people with the size of your hat. Yes. Hats were dicks. And the shininess of your hat. Hats were dicks for your heads. Hats were totally dicks for your heads. Even the true... Small little hat you've got there, eh? Hey, what's that now? You've got a tiny little hat. That's a big enough hat for you. Yeah, look at the size of this hat, eh? Fuck off! Yeah, you small fucking hat dick. Even the dirty poor could get hats. Woolworths sold a straw boater for ten cents. Okay. I mean, is that just like one of those straw sort of... It's a straw hat. Okay. Poor women decorated their hats with fake flowers or fruit. Okay. So eventually you're just walking around with flies just like... What is... It's a pear. It's got a pear on me head. Do you got any leftover watermelon? Sorry, we're so poor we might have to eat my hat. The poverty-stricken man would buy himself a ribbon to wrap around his ten cent hat. I mean, good God. Yeah, this is the whole thing. Imagine that's when you're giving people money. It's just like, for God's sake, go and buy yourself a ribbon. Clean yourself up. Get yourself a fucking ribbon, mate. Come on, look at you. You look ridiculous. A straw hat was a cheap summer alternative to an expensive hat. It kept the head cool and was respectable. And it didn't require the work a felt hat did. Okay. Felt hat you had to rework and do all this shit with. Sure. But it was a fragile creature, the straw hat. If it came off the head and hit the ground, it could easily be damaged. One accidental footstep and it was all over. Or a purposeful footstep. As in what? You would smash somebody's hat? Yeah. Just be like, fuck you, crank. Poor piece of shit. Smash hat. Back then, there were rules about wearing hats. Felt hats were fashionably accepted as formal proper hats. Only during the warm summer months from May 15th to September 15th could one wear a straw hat. Could? Could. And what if you did? Well, then you were a social outcast. I mean, something tells me in this time I would be a social outcast. Yeah, without a doubt. Because you would be wearing a straw hat way up in December. Are you fucking kidding me, bro? I'd be walking around without that. I'd be like, yeah. They'd be like, oh, you must have left your place in quite a hurry. Nope. No, I did not, bitch. Did not. I'm fucking hatless. Didn't. And when it was cooler from September 16th to May 14th, you were expected to wear a felt hat. That's too much, Dave. Though exactly why this is is not known. It is related to the rule about not wearing white after Labor Day. It is related to that? Yeah, because that's a rule. You're not supposed to wear white. It's a dumb rule. It's a rule. It's not a rule we follow. People wore white during the summer months and white clothes and straw hats became associated with summer and vacation and play and not a proper business atmosphere. And when summer ended, you were supposed to go back to work and fucking dress for it. What a nightmare. Take your goddamn. That's my leg, Jose. That's my leg. Quote straw hats as stiff as a mozza's like some kind of hard yellow flower bloomed annually all over the city on a certain date. June 1st or so, said Arthur Miller. Wow. Straw hat time differed from city to city, depending on the usual weather conditions of each region. American Hatter magazine. What? American Hatter magazine. Come on. It's a real thing. American Hatter magazine. Some guy was like, and they probably thought we'll never go out of business. No, how could we? People love hats. It's going to be hats. We're going to want to be reading about hats. Obviously different hats. Think of all the hat technology. Oh my God. Future hats. This week, the ball cap. American Hatter magazine said, quote, before the fifth. We're the worst. What the fuck are we doing? How is this possible? How can this go wrong? Quote, before the 15th of May, no one except the notoriety seeker would publicly wear a straw hat. What? What does that even mean? It means some guy looking for attention. Oh, okay. Would wear a straw hat before the 15th of May. It's so funny. Some guy who's like, me, me, me, me, me. But to me, that means he's like, if you're looking for a notary, you may wear that hat. I need to get something signed by a professional. American Hatter recommended that hatters develop strategies to tell their clients. Sorry, Hattergees. American Hatter recommended that hatters developed Hattergees to tell clients when it was considered partially acceptable to first put on their straw hat during the year. What? Yeah. And what? Strategies. I couldn't find it. I don't even really understand what that means. I couldn't find anywhere what the strategies would be. Well, they were just saying. Like ways that you sort of like tip them off to like, it's time. It's straw hat time. I mean. Hey, what's up with your hat? Excuse me? It's not straw? No. Like that. Should I start wearing a straw hat? That's what I'm saying. Okay, you could have just said that. Okay. If one were to draw a straw hat after September 15th, he would be met with public disapproval. You idiot. It was just not done. You dumb weirdo. This wasn't the case in Europe where a man could stroll about with a straw hat on well into the fall. Well, yes, but. Yeah, and they're filthy pigs. They are pig people. In America, the straw hat with snow on the ground meant snowballs were headed your way. Sounds fun. Yeah. In 1899, a British tourist was visiting Philadelphia and this fucking idiot wave broke out in late September. Oh, boy. Yes. The clerk at his hotel where he could buy a straw hat. Oh, God. The clerk was adamant that no one in Philadelphia wore a straw hat at the end of September. I mean, I'm assuming Philadelphians have always been assholes. So this guy couldn't be in a worse situation. Hello, I was just a sweet little English guy looking for a straw hat. Look at the straw hat. It's a bit warm. Is that right? Looking for a straw hat? Yeah, we'd like to say it. Look at this hand. What's that? Look at this hand. Why are you watching this one? Fuck face. You're punching me in the face. Get the fuck out of here. Would you mind not doing that? I won't die. Anyway, keep hitting him and he's not dying. I would like the straw hat. My God, I think he's a robot. Hat. Hat. So the clerk was adamant that no one in Philadelphia wore a straw hat at the end of September. And if one did so, they would be in danger. Quote, Whoa, whether such dire results would have followed my appearance clad in the tabooed article of clothing. I cannot say. He decided to wear his derby and survived. Yeah. Well, that makes sense. That's a smart call. The time of year that set aside the time of year that set aside to wear certain hats. Wait, did I? Sorry. The time of year set aside to wear certain hats weren't the only rule hat rules. That's what I'm trying to say. There's this when my parents first moved to America with my brother, he was seven. And they, you know, in England, you have to wear like uniforms when you go to school. And so they sent him to a public school in Cleveland on his first day of school and his little cap, his like little tie and his little shorts. And he came back, he came back and he was been crying. And my mother was like, and how was school? And he just goes, I need new clothes. It's not good, mother. Public school. Oh, fuck me. It's amazing. All right. So the hat, what were the other hat rules? Okay, there were unwritten rules for when a man was supposed to take off his hat and when to keep it on. And there were no joke. No one ever wore a hat in school, the theater, a private office, a gallery, a church or library. If you wore one in such an establishment, you were committing a terrible offense and greatly disrespecting the establishment and the people within greatly disrespecting this. What are you doing, man? Huh? Oh shit. What the fuck is on your head? Sorry, sorry, sorry, sir. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Let's beat the shit out of him. That's the library. Yeah. If you did not take off your. Shh. Quiet. Sorry. Let's take him out back. Beat the shit out of him. And fucking kill him. If you did not take off your hat in the presence of a woman, you were basically an animal. Hats also. And yet they would wear animals on them. Oh, I can't really go into that. Sure. Hats were also taken off at funerals. And if a religious man passed a church of his denomination, he had to take off his hat. But not of his. Not, not. Catholic is just walking down the street. Sorry, Catholic. If a Catholic is just walking down the street and he passes a Catholic church, he has to take his hat off. And if he's not, he can just walk by. You're not Catholic then? No. So I've got me a hat on. No, I figured because of that. By 1910, young men were grabbing their friends straw hats from their heads and smashing them underfoot. And at the end of the summer, they would yell. And then what was the game in New York where people would just beat, punch someone in the face and knock them out? Oh, that's just winter. Yeah. Oh, that's just that's called New York. Hello. Those are our trends now. Good times were had by all. It became a ritual in the stock market exchanges. This is how one declared the passing of the straw hat season. It was fine from a friend, but if a stranger grabbed your hat and crushed it with their boot, well, that was asking for a punch to the head. Oh, yeah. You're fucked. That makes sense. Yeah. In the city of Pittsburgh, the attacking of strangers hats was exactly what occurred on September 14th, 1910. Oh, good. The Pittsburgh press reported the hat trouble in the evening in the east end of the city. An organized demonstration broke out against the wearing of straw hats. So late into September. What? I mean, can you imagine like organized? Can you imagine when it would be like a time when you would organize? You could look around. Hey, Rudy. Yeah. Hey, tonight we're going to go down and demonstrate against the how is you ever think that maybe it's a little weird that we keep doing stuff like that? I don't know. Just hats. I do. Anyway. Yeah, I'll see you down there. OK. Yep. Some cities moved up the date. The dates as the years went by, so some people were moving the date September 15th up to like September 1st. Let's see. You can't be doing that. Roaming groups of young men dashed around Pittsburgh, taking hats off heads and smashing them. The police were forced to intervene on several occasions to stop men from fighting after the destruction of their hats. I mean, I just there's just no frame of reference. Right? Like, there is none. Like what do you? There's nothing. I mean, it just it just sounds it just sounds aggressive now, let alone a time. Jose. It's OK. It's OK. It's just Jose like seltzer. I think we just found out that he does not like Seltzer. Sneezing, sneezing, sneezing. The paper even said gunplay and bloodshed were a concern. I mean, what the fuck? Well, the hats are serious business. The press wrote, quote, No man likes to have his hat snatched from his head by somebody he has not yet been introduced to. But that's so crazy that it's OK if you knew them and you just like, no, no, no, I met you. I met you two months ago. No, no, I swear to God, I met you two months ago. I don't think so. Your carry your carry your carry's cousin. I swear to God, I was just doing a hat joke. Hat jokes. Hat jokes. Great show, by the way. Yeah. Garrett. That's on the Hat Network. Yeah. And if the informality should become general, there will sure to be a number of obstinate gentlemen, most likely with English blood in their veins. Yeah, obviously. Who will coolly proceed to treat the fun making as a physical assault and defend themselves in a manner which will spoil the fun for all concerns. So wait, translation. English people just need a reason to fight. Yeah, that's what they're saying. Which is so true. Yeah. The best time to prevent such an outcome is now before it happens. It is up to the police and they should act accordingly. That's the newspaper saying that. I mean, no one is saying don't take the hats off people's heads. Well, right. I guess I can't even understand. Yeah. How is that? No one is blaming that part of the. It wasn't just Pittsburgh that the straw hat smashing was becoming a problem. It was all cities and limiting the straw hat became the solution. The Lawrence, Kansas paper, the Lawrence Daily Journal World wrote on September 14th, 1912, the man who ventures out on the streets after tonight with a straw hat on is in danger of being hauled before the bar of judgment and made to explain his conduct. September 1st is the legal limit for wearing of the summer lid, but owing to the hot weather that prevailed at that time, Mayor Bishop extended the reprieve reprieve for two weeks. That two weeks expires tonight and hereafter the felt sky piece and the cap will hold forth. Mayor Bishop has issued special orders to the police department that no mercy must be shown offenders of this decree. And Marshall Myers has made it known that he will see that the rule is observed to the letter. It's goodbye to the straw hat. It was a useful article in its time, but that time has passed and the cooler variety of headpiece must occupy its place in the attic. Sorry, Hattick. Dave, we're insane. I mean, because Kate, like there's just, there's, I don't know what the parallel is today, but there's definitely a parallel that's just, there has to be something. I mean, nothing. There is nothing. There has to be something. They're talking about bringing people into court for wearing a hat at the wrong time. There's nothing. There's, there's gotta be some, there is no incorrect Hattick. Look, look, look, we're taking it very, I don't think so. Okay. Yeah. No, I mean, it's just, I don't, I'm having trouble. I'm having trouble wrapping my head around it. So now they're blaming, which is really a hats problem. They're really blaming the hat smashing on the hat wearer at this point. But it's, it's also like, who, I mean, how can you, how can somebody just be like, why don't we all just stop giving a fuck? You know, we should all just really stop being like this. Your honor, your honor. Yes. What about not giving a shit? Flog him, flog that man. Flog the shit out of that man. Also step on his hat. Someone who doesn't know him, step on his hat. Someone who has never met him, step on his hat. Slow motion. No. I felt like they were smashing me. I was never the same. Uh, so follow the norms of society, obviously, or else if you didn't, you were a marked man. And once autumn was here, teenagers all across the country started yanking the hats off heads and smashing them. The Pittsburgh stock exchange hat smashing went on for another 10 years. Sorry. What happened? What happened? The pitch group stock exchange was every year. Yeah. I think we said that earlier. They mauled off a hat every at the end of the, at the end of the, you know, the 15th. If you, the next day they would all smash. See I thought they were passing the hat or something like that, but they're, they are treating it like they're taking it off and smashing it. Take it off. They mauled off the fucker thing. They apparently decided to change the dates because on September 16th, 1921, the New York Times ran the headline quote Pittsburgh brokers to wear their straw hats until October 1st. Well that's crazy. What are they? That's not okay. I know, but it was a story in the New York Times. As it should be, Dave. It was so important that it needed to be news. Yeah, of course. Front page I'd say. Don't bury the lead. In New York, straw hat data enforcers were getting serious and they got very serious on September 13th, 1922 to be exact. On September 13th, 1922, a street gang from Five Points on the Lower East Side, where the worst of the worst lived, decided to get a couple of days jump on the straw hat end date. Okay. First, they grabbed the hats of factory workers as they left their jobs. The hats were all smashed and a pretty good time was had by all. The factory workers just shrugged their shoulders and went about their evening. Okay, cool. Cool. Fun. Then the game moved on to the docks. And went after the dock workers leaving work. And dock workers are dock workers. Right. They were not done with the hat smashing and a large brawl broke out between the two groups. Sure. Sure. Big one. Oh, good. So big that traffic on the Manhattan Bridge came to a halt. Large straw hat destroying gangs started roaming the city, grabbing hats and attacking people. Jesus Christ. Using, also using clubs with nails in them. What? That's no fun. The police had to get involved and they came in swinging their clubs and shutting shit down. They made arrests and put a stop to the fighting and attacks. Eventually, the riot ended during the night. What? What do you mean what? What to you? What do you mean what to me? What to this time? They would have... There's a classic straw hat riot. It sounded fun. It sounded fun. Straw hat riots in broil Eastside, said the New York Times on September 14th, 1922. A local magistrate was quoted that it was the quote inalienable right of a man to wear a straw hat in a snowstorm if he desires, is to be upheld in this city by both police and the magistrates. And a warning was sent with broadcast to all strad hat smashers last night that jail terms or assault charges awaited them if they started such a carnival today. So they've been warned. I mean, they've been warned. Yeah, let them do it. You know who would not have survived this time is Jason Mraz. He would have been on a tremendous amount of trouble. But the game was on. Now more youths wanted in on the action and more men with straw hats were not going to be told they had to stop wearing their hats the day before the end of straw hat stopping day was upon us. Somebody somebody... You will not tell me to not wear my hat on the 14th. Somebody somebody be smart. Somebody just cave. September 14th was a abnormally warm day. As was the evening. That meant straw hat weather straw hats galore. Yeah. OK. Out on the evening of September 14th, the riots increased in size. This time they spread all the way up to Amsterdam Avenue on Manhattan's west side. There tons of men were walking about with their straw hats on thinking they were safe from the Lower East Side hordes. Well it's got hat in the name. They were wrong. Yeah I bet. Quote mobs of hundreds of boys and young men terrorized whole blocks. Complaints poured in upon the police from men whose hats were stolen and destroyed. But as soon as the police broke up the gangs in one district, the hoodlums resumed their activities elsewhere. They were performing hat and run attacks. I mean please. It wasn't called hat and run. You've been. OK. We've got a hat and run. We don't know who did it. That was a tip my hat to Will Anderson. A tip of your what? The hat. Oh God. The gangs armed with sticks that had a nail in the tip would force men wearing straw hats to run a gauntlet. Those clubs should be called the Prince Albert now that we think about it. They would also I can just imagine men in straw hats running a gauntlet. I just can't. It's the greatest thing. You can imagine this. To me I need to see a drawing. Oh no it's completely. Yeah. Somebody needs to draw this for me. This should be an HBO show. Yes yes. The boys would also hide in doorways in a group of around 10 and then rush out when a gentleman strolled by in his straw hat and attack him. On the lower west side on Christopher Street, the youths lined up alongside the train car tracks and snatched straw hats off of passengers heads as the cars went by. The Times wrote a man who said he was E.C. Jones, a promoter of 70 West 93rd Street, telephoned to the Times that this had happened when he was riding uptown on an Amsterdam Avenue car between 135th and 136th Street at nine o'clock last night. He said the car was attacked by a group of boys who later disappeared in a mom of about a thousand who were destroying straw hats along Amsterdam Avenue. Someone said he complained at the police station and the mob was dispersed. A thousand a thousand a thousand hat destroyers, boys and young teenagers, boys to men, boys to men, ABC, BBD. That's the top hats. Yeah. Even off duty or undercover policemen were attacked. Detective Sergeant Brindisi. Wait, wait, wait, say that again. Even off duty or undercover policemen were attacked. Or detective Sergeant Brindisi was swarmed by a gang and his hat thrown into the street and smashed. He chased the hoodlums, but was tripped and fell face first into the gutter. He arrested the man who tripped him, who turned out to be Leo Cohen, 34 of West 50th Street. Cohen was booked on a charge of disorderly conduct. I like that it's mostly teenagers and boys and there's a 34 year old. Just tripping cops. Yeah. Like, yeah, yeah. Like, yeah, yeah. Come on. We all went through our hat phase. It was better to give up your hat than fight for it. Harry Gerber, 25 of East 115th Street, tried to fight off a gang trying to snatch his hat. He was badly beaten and kicked and then had to be taken to West Harlem Hospital for treatment. Who is defending the hats? Okay, here, be a kid and you want me to take my straw hat off. There's a gang around you. Hey, give me your hat, fuck face. All right, here you go. Thank you. See you guys. Smash. Thanks. The police were busy all through the evening of the 14th. You would be one of these guys who would be like, fuck you. Oh yeah, you couldn't take my fucking hat. Are you shitting me? You'd be buried in the hat. Take my fucking eye before you take my hat. The police were trying to protect hat wearers from hat attackers. Plainclothes policemen King and Lamore were heading down Third Avenue when 12 boys armed with sticks charged out of doorways. The officers managed to catch eight of them and took them to the police station. Holy shit. Now that I don't know. I don't understand how that happened. I mean, they are boys. I know. So they must have just like, all right, stop it. Yeah. Okay. Okay. They were all other 15 years old, so they were not arrested. Instead, they got a lecture from one Lieutenant Lienahan, who then sent for their parents to come and pick them up. He recommended that the parents give them a good spanking when they returned home. Yeah, right. That'll teach them how to not riot. That's right. The boys were warned that if they were caught again attacking straw hats, they would be locked up. On the dumbest charges ever. So many straw hats were destroyed that straw hat bonfires were started. Oh my God. I mean, what like it's a hat of cost. It really is a hat of cost. The desert news summed it up perfectly. The police were kept busy, but there was too many hats. I want to say a couple of things. First of all, the police were kept busy because there were too many hats. But I also want to point out that the desert news used was instead of were. Come on. Who's got time for grammar when the story is this hot? But there was too many hats. There was too many hats. And they spelled to T.O. Bobby, you see a problem with you that sentence you wrote there? There was too many hats. Exactly. Yeah. No. That's what my point is. Hopefully the readers like it. No. See you later. Okay. Thanks. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. Men were brought in front of magistrate. But what does that mean that they were so distracted with hats that they had no there was just too many burning hats. And people the police were kept busy. There were too many hats. So in other words, there were too many people wearing hats. So the police were just trying to protect everyone. Oh, so it's kind of like whack a mole. Basically, it's very much like whack a mole with straw hats. Right. And teenagers. Sure. Yeah. And New York men were brought in front of magistrate Peter a hatting Dave magistrate hatting Dave. He cannot try this case. Good Lord. We know who he's in the pocket of big hats. He's totally in the pocket of big big hats. I mean, when I read that I almost had Hatton, Hatton, Hatton, Peter a hatting, Peter a hatting. Yeah. I mean, his name will may as well be like, Doug, are you shitting me? The men were fine. Five dollars. He said, quote, it is against the law to smash a man's hat. And he has a right to wear it in a January snowstorm if he wishes. I already said that to hit a man's hat is a simple assault. And in this court, it will be treated as such. And I want you to spread this word among all who would smash hats. Yeah. A man's hat is just as much his property and just as much to be defended as his watch. Wait a minute. We can start getting the watch. A few men who could not afford the five dollar fine spent time in jail. Oh my God. Hat hat shops were packed with men without hats because this was still a time when it was unheard of to be without a hat. Men without hats. Also a great thing. So they would get their hat smashed and then they would run straight to the hatter. Like it's an emergency. Yeah. So the hatter was all right. Hold on. Settle down. Did you not just leave your house in a hurry? I'm very scared. OK. Sit down. Sit down. Terry, get the washcloth. Get the washcloth. Wet the cloth and bring it in here. I don't know who I am. I don't know who I am. Your name's Harry. Your name's Harry. You're a regular guy. No, no, you're fine. Come on. Put your head in my bosom. Put your head in my bosom. All right. We're going to get you a hat. We're going to get you a hat. We're going to get you a backup hat. All right. We'll get you whatever you want. You're going to have so many hats. You're not going to know what to do. Buddy, you're going to have some. No, no, no, no, no, no. Don't get sad. No, no, no, no, no. You're going to have so many hats. Is that a breeze? Oh, God. On my head, a breeze? Get the goddamn hats. The riots eventually calmed down partly due to the fact that September 15th passed and most of the dry hats were put away. Yeah, people were like, all right, well, we're good. No one was killed, but many people were wounded. In the future, September saw more hat attacks, but never on the scale of the straw hat riot of 1922. Hat attacks. Many attacks. In 1925, President Calvin Coolidge violated straw hat etiquette wearing his hat after the dreaded end date. Oh, God. When was he assassinated? The New York Times wrote about it, but no one in DC snatched the hat from his head and smashed it because he was the president. Right. Eventually, the rules of fashion became less. Imagine if Obama was the president back then, how quickly that had to be taken off his fucking head and shot it off him. Eventually, the rules of fashion became less extreme and the depression came. And with it, people's concern shifted from hat etiquette to finding food. Straw hats can now be worn whenever you want. God damn right. Or can they? They can be. Don't do it. Oh, on the next dollar. Is it possible that Lincoln was just killed in some sort of hat controversy? We don't know. We could have been. I know we've talked about it. We actually do know. Was he wearing a hat inside? I always pictured him with the hat. I always picture him with a hat on too. But I bet he wasn't. I mean, think of the person behind him. Excuse me, Abe? You had it. Abraham. Yes. Abe, I'm actually unable to see the stick. Is there any way you could take your... Could you take the hat off? President! Absolutely. You keep it on, sir. Hat. Get me Wilkes Booth. Thank you for listening to The Dollop. You can find us at The Dollop on Twitter. You can email us suggestions for topics at the dolloppodcast at Gmail. We are also on Facebook, The Dollop. We have a Reddit subreddit, The Dollop. You can give to our Patreon. Go to Patreon and you can set up a donation or you can do a one-timer, I think. If you want to use our Amazon affiliate, which also gets us money, you can find that link at The Dollop sources or you can find that link on our Facebook page, which is funny because every time I say... We bring up the Patreon page. People go in and reduce their... Wait. They're reminded that they're doing it and they're like, oh God, I got to get rid of that. So it's the opposite plug? Yeah, right now, every time we say it, we're losing money. Like what just happened? That's amazing. It's pretty great. It makes me laugh. So that's amazing. Well, we should... And then Patreon people, all the stuff from the first round, everyone who got me their information in October. I think they just went out last week, so you guys should be getting all of your Patreon rewards soon and then I'll do the... Whoa, Jose. Jose's just biting his hand. He just did that to me. And then the next round will go out soon. I'll send them... Everyone, if you are a Patreon subscriber and you're getting a reward, send me what reward you want. Go look at the stuff on Astoi merchandise, the posters and the shirts and tell me what shirt size you want and all that good stuff. And then send that through the Patreon message. So like it on iTunes and subscribe and leave comments that are positive. And you know what else? So the Kickstarter. So we've been recording the 10 minute Kickstarters and going through. And then I'm also in the middle of doing the album. And then Kickstarter just says my account doesn't exist, which is really cool. That's cool. Well, you should start a Kickstarter to get to the bottom of that. It's fucking insane. So bother Kickstarter and say, what the fuck are you doing? We should go to Punchfinisher. That's a good one. Punchfinisher? I'm a hack. Okay. Gary's a hack. Gareth!