 You're listening to the dollop each week I do. Each week. No. A story from American history to my friend Gareth Reynolds. Who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. I'll leave that on there. I have to take it off. Okay. All right. I don't even know. It's almost so funny. It's almost, I mean it's the battle of funny versus prudent. And I think funny wins. God, do you want to look at a dude? I'll do one bump. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become the Tickling Podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. I want to thank all of our subscribers at Patreon. This podcast is brought to you by our subscribers. We thank each and every one of you who donate. You help us a lot. Because this podcast is a lot of work. Hear the wind beneath our podcast wings. You have a stunning voice. Thank you. I was a young Mariah Carey. That's interesting. My buddy opened for Mariah Carey for 12 shows. Never met her. Seriously? Yeah. That's amazing. I was like, what was she like? He goes, I don't fucking know. I never saw her. She didn't give a fuck. Yeah. What a fuck. Well, she's very insulated shockingly. But who keeps you so close to fucking hiding like I opened it for you. Oh. I'm not sure. Yeah. Well, January 18, 1831. I mean, it's already out of the park. John Stith Pemberton was born in Knoxville, Georgia. His father was James Clifford Pemberton. Pemberton grew up and went to local schools in Rome, north of Atlanta. He studied herbal medicine and pharmacy at the Southern Botanical Medical College at 17. Then in 1850, when he was 19, he received a license to practice on Thomsonian or Botanic principles. Okay. So, okay. So herbal remedies. Yeah. Now, Thomsonian medicine was based on the works of Samuel Thompson. He believed, quote, fevers nature's effort to throw off disease and therefore ought to be treated as a friend and not as an enemy, as is the practice of physicians. Coo coo. Okay. Not the worst idea considering the time though. No. I mean, fevers do exist for a reason. Well, no. And actually most antibiotics do come from nature. Right? I think I like what this guy's doing. If I want to stare at you and you just kind of unravel. Yeah. No. So I think you're supposed to think things like that. Thomsonian treatments involve steam baths. So someone has a fever. I'm already in baby. Spa day? Yeah. No, you have a fever of 103 and then a dude puts you in a steam bath. Put me in the steam room. Cool me down, baby. How about a hot tub? Your arm hurts? I can't take your arm. He would give herbal remedies like bayberry, hemlock, witch hazel, raspberry, water lily, rosemary, ginger, and cayenne pepper. These were all supposed to quote hold heat in the stomach or induce vomiting. Okay. Which is the opposite things. Right. Is the okay. You either going to, it's really going to make you hot in the tummy and make you vomit. You're going to get really sick from our cure. Pemberton practiced medicine at first in Rome, Georgia. Then he, where he performed a few eye surgeries. I don't. That's all it said. That's that. That was the whole thing that I'm going to go ahead and be on. Rick. I don't think that's good. I think any eye surgery performed in 1830 was fucking horrific. I imagine it's just taking out the eye. That's all I can think of it. And even then I can not imagine there just be like, well, your ears gone. What's next? No, his eye. Oh shit. Oh, hey, go take your eye out. Let me get my thumb in there deep. We're taking the eye out. Don't worry. You got troll lives in your eye. Makes your foot ache. Please me spoon. Got to put a little ginger in there now. Here we are. And now I'm going to eat the ginger. You're better. Thanks for coming to monsters. Next he moved to clubbers, Georgia. At this point, Thompsonian medicine was no longer popular. So it was, you know, it had a fizzle flare up when he was a Columbus. He met his soon to be wife and Eliza Clifford Lewis. Everyone called her Cliff. Sure. That's what you want your wife to be called. Hey, me, Cliff. Hi. Hey, I've got a vagina. They got hitched in 1853 and soon had their first and it turns out only child. His name was Charles. They called him Charlie. Since Thompsonian medicine was no longer the way to go, Pemberton started a wholesale retail drug business that specialized in substances used in the composition of chemical remedies. Okay. And to help, he got a, he got a graduate degree in pharmacy, which I don't know what that meant. Sure. 31. You know, you go to CVS university, pharmacy degree, right? This was when the boom, the, the, this, the first rioting pharmacy, uh, college opened up. That's right. Right. Right. RAU. He was successful and he went through several partners over the next 10 years. Then the U S civil war broke out in 1861. Hmm. Good times. Pemberton's uncle, John C. Pemberton was a respected soldier who had fought in the Seminole and American Mexican American wars and was now a general for the Confederacy. So Pemberton decided to join and fight with the South. He helped organize a group of older men in Columbus and was said to have served with distinction. Yeah. Pemberton earned the rank of lieutenant colonel in the third Georgia Calvary battalion. His uncle played an important part in the war being defeated and surrendering during the critical siege of Pittsburgh. Okay. So, yeah. So he's good shit. The South surrendered on April 9th, 1865. The war was over. And what's good is, is people will find they let, they let it go pretty easy. Yep. No grudges held. Unfortunately, telegraph lines had been destroyed during the war and word of surrender had not gotten back to the boys in Columbus. Okay. Union general in charge, James Wilson led an attack on the city on April 16th. Seven days after the end of the war, Pemberton was engaged in a sword fight on horseback. He was slashed with a sword across his torso and then shot. Oh my God. He did recover from his wounds, but his recovery included using morphine as pain medicine. The use of morphine was incredibly common at the time and Pemberton, like many, became a morphine addict. Perfect. Everyone was using it. So many soldiers were addicted to morphine due to their injuries that morphine addiction became known as the soldier's disease. Oh shit. All right. Estimates say as many as 400,000 vets were addicts. That's a lot. That is a lot. That's a lot of dudes. Yeah. That's a lot of morphine. Yeah. That's a lot of morphine. Morphine. I got it. I wish it hadn't happened. Sure. But I got it. We all feel like that. Well, now we all feel like morphine addicts. Thank you. Because of that joke. All right. Let it go. It wasn't hard to figure out. They wore a leather strap and a small bag around their necks. Like St. Bernard junkies? Inside they had morphine and a needle. Around their necks? I don't know why. I think he's starting to use morphine. Yeah. Well, he's got a bag around his neck. It's exactly what I'm saying. It's a telltale. Imagine if that's what the heroin addicts did today. Just carried it out of sac on their neck. Hey, look at junkie. At the bank. Look at you. Look at you with your little morphine pouch. From a medical journal at the time, quote, no plan of medication that has been so carelessly used and thoroughly abused and no therapeutic discovery that has been so great a blessing and so great a curse to mankind than the hypodermic injection of morphine. So people are just junking it up in the streets and wherever. Right? I mean, 400,000 people for this time is a shitload of people. So people, yeah. Wow. Yeah, everyone's just junking it up all over the place. Junking it up is actually also a show that I host. It's also a band. Is it? It's junking it up really good. They're good. Yeah, they play a lot of bottles. After the war, morphine man Pemberton returned to work at his pharmacy. Oh, so he's now, oh Jesus. What do you, what? Wait, he's all, he's junking it up. Yeah, he's on morphine. And he's a pharmacy. Fuck yeah, he is. And pharmacies have access. I got everything. Yeah, but at this point, morphine's totally legal. You just grab that shit. Right. Anywhere. You can go in any Safeway or. It's gum. Ralph's and just be like, hey man, I want some. Also a pack of morphine. Mustard. That takes a morphine. Pickles and the morphine. Oh, and some tampons. Oh, my wife. After the war, so he opens a pharmacy. They didn't have tampons. Right? You know what, that's a history subject I don't want to get into. I don't know what was happening. I'm sure it was just a fucking nightmare. I mean, it's a nightmare now. Right? I don't know how many friends you just made, but. Well, no, I mean, but I know I'm not talking about like the dudes. It's a nightmare for the dudes. But I mean, in general, it's like you cope. Like I don't ever. There's never a woman who's like, oh, thank you. Well, when they're well, that's true. Actually, I've actually said that before. You did. Thank fucking God. What a weird week this has been. You know, it'd be worse if it was the 1830s. Oh, God. Then we'd have to use drapes. So he developed there at his pharmacy. He developed patent medicines. OK. These were big at the time. There were many guys offering many types of cures with their concoctions, although they pretty much all use the same ingredients. Vegetable extracts with a lot of oil and some morphine. Right. Well, do you need the vegetable extract? No. There were no regulations at the time, so these mixtures could easily lead to death. Good. Like bath salts. Right. There was no proof that they were effective, but they were openly sold and claimed all sorts of cures. The drug makers said their fixtures could cure venereal disease, tuberculosis, colic indigestion, female complaints, and even cancer. OK. What? Female complaints? You guys talk about female complaints. No, cancer. Female complaints. We're all looking for a cure. You heard my tampon rant earlier. Can you do the dishes just once? Oh, God. You know what? Take this. Oh. Do whatever you like, honey. There we go. That's where I need her. That's what I'm talking about. Docile. That's a good girl. She's a good girl. Cough medicine usually contained morphine. There was an anti-diarrhea medicine called Dr. Fowler's Strawberry and Peppermint Mixture. Dr. Fowler's? Dr. Fowler's Strawberry and Peppermint Mixture. And it cured diarrhea? These are stop really loose boom booms. Which? The doctor came by and gave me your boom boom medicine. It contained 15% alcohol and one fifth of a grain of morphine per fluid ounce. A grain is literally like a grain of wheat. That's the measurement. Okay. So a nice chunk. Per fluid ounce, one fifth of a grain. That's a good one. That's a lot of morphine. Yeah. There were also- And also you inject this diarrhea medication. Oh, yeah. Shoot it into your eyeballs. Shoot it through your cock. There were also Bateman's drops that cured rheumatism, pains, hysterias, gallstones, gout, jaundice, and respiratory problems. That's a lot of the- And it really all is just doing the same thing, right? Which is just numbing you. It's fucking horse shit. The mixture, that mixture had a 48.9% alcohol and 1.9 grains of opium per ounce. That's just shit face material. You were supposed to give two drops to a child who was two days old. What? What do you mean what? What do you mean? You can't be junking it up in babies. Five drops for a five day old baby. What? Well, okay, here's something. What? Your two day old child is going to be five days old soon. So it sounds like a bad first fucking week. Ten year olds would get half a teaspoon. Ten day olds? Ten year olds. Ten year olds would get half a teaspoon. Oh, these are days or years? No, well I was doing days before. And now a ten year old gets a teaspoon. A ten year old gets a half a teaspoon. For a kid that's a lot of actually a lot of morphine. Just because. Yeah. Right. She's like, man, I give my baby five drops of this stuff and he is just solid at that point. He's so great. Go look at him in his room. He's sleeping like a dead body. Just laying right on the floor. He's been in there for seven months just laying on the floor. Great medicine. I really recommend it. Once he gets up, I'm going to teach him how to read. Max Pemberton moved to Atlanta, became a partner in the firm Pemberton Wilson Taylor and Company in 1870. Their manufacturing lab had $35,000 worth of the latest equipment. It was written about in the- Imagine seeing that latest equipment now. You'd be like, guys, this is pathetic. Great beaker, bro. It was written about in the Atlanta Constitution, quote, a magnificent establishment, one of the most splendid chemical laboratories that there is in the country. It was onward and upward. Two years later, he became a trustee of the Atlanta Medical College. Then he started a pharmaceutical business in Philadelphia and started cranking out his stuff en masse. Now remember, he's still a fucking morphine addict. Right. Some of those patented medicines, Dr. Sanford's Great Invigorator. For banging. Eureka oil. For banging. Indian queer hair dye. Gay banging. Triplex liver pills. Drunk banging. Gingerine. Redheaded banging. And lemon and oil and orange elixir. Nice little drink. And the greatest liver medicine in the world. That doesn't he already have a liver medicine on the market? He just stopped. He just stopped like trying. I'm outdoing myself. He was like, fuck it. This is just the best stuff ever. Sure. But it was not to be. In 1872, he filed for bankruptcy. One of his creditors said he was, quote, honorable and industrious, but lacks good management. He also had no ability to save money and constantly gave it away to family and friends. And to top it off, there were two business fires, one in 1874 and another in 1878. In the second fire, he lost 20,000 of his stock. Only half was recovered by insurance. But he continued on with his career. In 1881, he served on the first state examining board to licensed pharmacists in Georgia. Oh, boy, the gardeners are here. But even more financial ruin was around the corner. In 1883, he came down with an unknown illness. Not good at that time to have an unknown illness. Yeah. But also a morphine addict coming down with an unknown illness might just be morphine addict. No. Give him some morphine. That's what you do. He had taken on a new partner, local businessman Asa Candler. Meanwhile, Pemberton lost all of his lab equipment and stock of drugs to Candler while he was ill. Pemberton called Candler, quote, predatory. So Candler took the ship. Yeah, he just took everything and fucking bailed. Pemberton was said to have been left in utter ruin. The 1880s were the time of industrialization. And with that came more and more work and frantic lifestyles. George Beard coined the term Neurostina. Fuck, I looked it up before. We still use it today. Neurostina. It was a disease of the time with neurotic psychosomatic, particularly amongst the upper class. So it's fucking in your head. It's like a psychosomatic symptoms. It's your Yeah, but it's also I mean, it can't eat you. It's probably anxiety. It's probably a bunch of different shit, right? Well, look, when you got all that money, stressful, right? That led to nerve tonics like Huxley's nerve vigor. God, I just figure all. I want to go back to this time and drink these things. Fucking to have a nerve tonic. Well, if you're anxious and someone gives you morphine, yeah, it's fucking awesome. And by the way, anxious anymore. Not different at all from today. We just have better fucking. We have much drugs. They're also Dr. Hammond's nerve and brain tablets. Well, just going to take a brain tablet and go to bed. Huh, yeah, I've had some nerve tonic and I got rid of my diarrhea with some raspberry lemonade and now I'm just going to have a brain tablet call it a night. Advertising on patent medicines exploded St. Jacob's oil, a anti neurologic tincture that was made of turpentine ether and alcohol. Holy shit. Spent five hundred thousand annually on ads. What is turpentine turpentine ether and alcohol? I mean, that is a very deadly combination. Girl, you never had turpentine turpentine. Girl, you want to shut the turpentine make you feel turpentine to turn the fine this turpentine. I don't know if I would use the term turpentine turpentine. And you just call everyone a saint, a saint. Hey, David. Yeah, I'm not seeing that. You can't hear him whacking those weeds. Maybe a little bit, but I think it's OK. So did the W.T. Hansen Company. Sure. Spend a lot on advertising for their quote. Pink pills for pale people. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, man. Yeah. That is some good shit right there. Like these tears away from it. That really hit me good. Pink pills for pale people. Oh, just I guess it makes you not pale. There's no first of all, there's no way it works, but just terrific. Clocks, calendars, pens, almanacs, pocket knives, matchbooks and mirrors were given away with patent medicine ads printed on them. Pretty much exactly what happens today. You have tons of so many pens and shit. I just want a pink pill. So right. Don't you want to pick pill for a pill person? I'm English. I need one. Yeah, you do need one. Burn. Can't be out on hillsides were clear cut and giant billboards were propped up. But money was the god of the time. So most Americans are willing to put up with fraud and hype in the name of individual rights and democracy, particularly if there is money to be made. Hey, welcome to our game plan forever. So nothing's different. Even a scoundrel was admirable if he was rich enough, but it was still a rough game. Only about 2% of these drug mixtures had any success. So people are just cranking them all out. Yeah, most of them working. Most of it's not they're not working. They're just not catching on. Like weight loss. And the ones that that didn't work, you know, some of them became very successful. Just because because the word of mouth or whatever. And also because they were you would fuck it would drug you. Yeah. So you wouldn't fucking. Yeah, it's good. I don't know if the brain tablets work as well as they say they do. But all I know was the time I felt really coffee. My head was funny. But then I took this and now she's had a lot of brain. She's just like because she took too many brain tablets and now she's what the doctors call causing out. This is great. She's causing out right now. I mean, soda water was sold in drugstores and some also made claims of curative power powers. Just. I mean, why wouldn't you? Yeah. The makes it taller. There was the moxie nerve food. Oh, which was a you could get that in a soda shop. This was the war on nerves. That said it cured insomnia, nervousness, softening of the brain. It cured softening of the brain or soft it cured softening of the brain. Yeah, it would make your brain less soft. Like if your brain hard to fight them, if hard to fight them, your brain was solving them wrong. It also cured paralysis. That's a hard one. It seems like it seems like it probably caused paralysis. That's a hard one to prove that. Yeah. I mean, you would give it to someone with paralysis and they wouldn't get up and you beg, oh, you need more. Or how would that work? Like that's really simple one to like there's one you get means you just take it once you get one one drink and you're like, this didn't work. Oh, he's jogging now. Yeah, he's jogging around the block. Also there was hires root beer, which we still have. Hires hires h i r e s. I don't know. You haven't seen it. It might be gone now, but it was around maybe 20 years ago. That claimed it had 16 wild roots and berries to purify the blood and make rosy cheeks. Hey, for those people whose pink pale pills aren't working, the tonics are sometimes mixed with hard liquor. Love it because you're health nuts. And then came cocaine. In 1884, an Austrian doctor said he had been able to anesthetize the surface of the human eye using a solution of cocaine hydrochloride that had been taken from Peruvian cocoa leaves. So he really did find cocaine. Yeah, it was actual cocaine and he put it in someone's eye. But didn't it? But it did. It was effective, right? I mean, like didn't it help numb? Are they using leaf blower? Yeah, he's using the leaf blower. Look at these guys. Oh, I didn't know you use Gilberto's. That's our those are our gardeners. Gilberto's! You know, if you guys need gardening help, Gilberto's is the official gardeners of the dollar podcast. Gilberto's, we wear bandanas over our faces. He basically brought cocaine back and was like, yeah, you can anesthetize. He discovered it and he told everybody. And then medical researchers in Europe and the United States jumped on the new anesthetic and began to use it in surgery. Immediately, everyone started checking out what cocaine could do. Sigmund Freud wrote, quote, a song of praise to this medical substance. A song? A song of praise. You'd meaning that he just sings its praises. He didn't write a song. He wrote a song of praise. That was what he. But that's it. He didn't write it. Are you saying he didn't write a song? No, he didn't. He could have. He was so high on cocaine, he could have. Well, it just said. If you've got some pain in your brain, just try a little bit of cocaine. We found this whole droid full of songs. And the Freud dancers, aren't they beautiful? Look at them. We found a whole droid full of Freud songs. That's right. That's right. Cocaine began to be used as a treatment for drug addiction. Well. Alcoholism, depression. Well, I'll tell you, in my experience with cocaine, it's always cured all those things. It does do that. You get, you feel rested and you don't want to drink. But the next day. You feel fine. Little cocaine. I've never done it. I wouldn't know. Never? I've never done drugs. Me either. Just one year after the Austrian. I haven't either. Just one year after the Austrian doctors discovery, cocaine was being used everywhere. It was now everywhere in the US. 1855 was a year of quote, coca mania. They still hold that in San Jose. Cocaine was used in patent medicines, ointments, sprays, hypodermic injections, suppositories for hemorrhoids. Now, when I heard that, when I read that, I was like, that's fucking awesome. Yeah. Why can't that still be a thing? Were you, if you have a bad, painful hemorrhoid. Yeah. You just fucking stick some cocaine in your butt. Yeah. Well, the problem is your butt doesn't shut up. Keeps telling you fucking stories that goes nowhere. And then this other toilet I was at this one time, I got Jesus, but shut the fuck up. So, really though, if you think about it, like, so you have this sort of self-fulfilling, like people are using cocaine to cure things and cocaine makes you think crazy thoughts. So you're like, oh, I don't want to cure it. Cocaine, cocaine cures everything. Just a little cocaine and you'll be fine. I actually came up with another cure. Could you imagine this era? So if everyone's fucking using cocaine, it sounds like everyone's fucking taking it. Right. And just how horrendous that fucking horrendous business ideas that came out of the time and just the endless ideas that were garbage. Just everyone in the country is just coming up with just terrible fucking, hey, man, let's make a chain store. Hey, man, let's put birds on our hats. Like, yes. Bingo. So, there were many ads also. Burnett's cocaine for the hair. Oh my God. There's dandruff, soothes all irritation for the scalp, makes the hair grow and gives a beautiful luster. You know, I'll be honest. What doesn't cocaine on your head do? It'd be amazing. Your whole head goes numb. Cocaine tooth drops, instantaneous cure for children. You know, my friend is done cocaine says that when it hits your mouth, you go very numb. Oh really? Yeah. Oh, that's interesting. So that makes sense. Cocaine chewing paste was sold for 50 cents a pouch. Oh my God. And then there was cocaine wine. Then Mariani was a tonic and patent medicine made from Bordeaux wine and coca leaves. Now that had been around since 1863 in France. But when Americans started cranking out cocaine wine, the guy who created it in France, Angelo Mariani was not impressed. He said American imitators made quote worthless so-called coca drinks that are nothing more than solutions of cocaine in inferior grades of wine, shamefully prepared by unscrupulous or ignorant persons who are bringing discredit to a really useful drug. So he's a he's a French guy. Yeah, he's very he's like, I'm a coca mollet. You doubt there you fucking pig. You take so much more than just putting grapes in a bottle with cocaine. Americans were just basically put and we made like Bud Light Lime orita. Exactly. Hey, Americans were just putting cocaine in his shitty wine, which just made the wine taste bitter, but got people high. Why? Why can't we still have cocaine wine? Come on. We're all grownups here. Come on. The world's falling apart. Yeah, let's just have some coke. Let's let's. Can I just say let's go out drinking cocaine wine? Yeah, yeah. Coke wine. Mariani's wine had seven milligrams of cocaine per dose dose. I don't know. I guess glass. Right. Per dose. So medical. Some American cocoa wines had 35 to 70 milligrams of cocaine. See so American. Yeah, but you know what? Hey, sorry, Frenchie. We did it better. He's like, it's we got to use perfect. Perfect amount gives you a small happy feeling. I know, actually, if you just put a bunch of it in the bottle and shake it up, then you can pound it. I can't see my eyes. That means the wine's working. It was recommended one should take a wine glass three to four times a day. This is a great era. This is a great era. Some what was happening? Everybody could just do cocaine. Some wine brand said kids should only get half that dose. Oh, fucking narcs. Quacks. Pemberton was in on the wine and coca from one of his ads in 1885, the most successful tonic of the age. Pemberton's French wine, coca recommended by 20,000 eminent physicians for. I love that this now this is a guy on blow making an ad. Yes, like 20,000 people. A lot of it. They fucking love it. Like 20,000 guys. They just take all the time. You just take it. Just keep taking it. I'm going to go for a job. No, you just came back from jogging. We have. Let's jog again. Stop moving your mouth. I can't stop taking medicine. Your mouth looks like it's a looks like Billy Idol's living in your mouth. So much medicine to take. Is it medicine? I don't know. I'm going to run. Okay. It was for the cure of all nervous afflictions. That's the best. Yeah. Cocaine take the nerves down. All. Yeah. That's true. We've all seen the end of Goodfellas. You know how cocaine makes you stress less. It is pleasant to take. It will prove itself beyond price. Another ad French wine. Cocoa strengthens strengthens and exhilarates. Cocoa a wonderful invigorator of the genital organs and removes all physical and mental exhaustion. I mean, sign me up for this one. This one gets your fucking channel organs. All. Okay. Yeah. They really have to keep outdoing each other. Yeah. Right. Not only will. Okay. Now it'll make you dick hard and all your problems go away. You're vagina gets puffy. What don't help. Very. It will also cured physical and mental exhaustion. The best known remedy for morphine and opium habits. Imagine that's just the greatest sick headache, neuralgia, wakefulness, loss of memory, nervous tremors, melancholy, et cetera. Sold by Pemberton and Gresham. So proprietors. God. Another ad. Cocoa wine is a delightful tonic regulates the bowels, liver and kidneys to perfection and is quote a boon to suffering humanity. I mean really ambitious stuff. Yeah. You'll ship more and the world's problems will go away. If you feel out of sorts, blue or melancholy, a few doses of Pemberton French cocoa wine will make you well and happy under its influence. All things in nature seem to be at work for your good. And this is all very true about cocaine and you'll experience a feeling of indescribable ease, contentment and satisfaction. Oh man. Also, you're going to be an asshole to your friends. Coca is the most wonderful invigorator of all the second sexual organs and will cure seminal weakness, impotency, et cetera. While all other remedies fail. Fuck yes. Fuck yes. It's a happy dick drink. It's just the best. It's every day. It's that basically said everything. Listen, drink this wine every day and all your problems go away. Cocoa wine. But there was pushback. From who? From the children. Right. Against everyone, including children from taking cocaine in all forms. What? You're telling me kids can't do cocaine? The Atlantic Constitution wrote a critical article of cocaine and said that people would soon be demanding a remedy for the cocaine habit. Pemberton responded with his own article. Quote, it is perfectly wonderful what cocoa does. It is the very best substitute for morphine. It's supply as he knows. It supplies that the place of that drug curing the patient of addiction without inconvenience or pain. We Americans are a great army of nervous invalids. Sure. A little cocaine will put that fire out. What a thing to write. Yeah. Look, we're fucking awful. We're all. Okay. Look, Americans are a fucking mess. He's coked out of his tits. Cocoa promotes robust health, tremendous physical and mental activity and long life. I wish it were in my power to substitute cocoa and compel all who were addicted to the use of opium, morphine, alcohol, tobacco or other narcotics, stimulants to live on the cocoa plant. Yeah. So he's pushing that ship. Fuck yeah. The temperance movement had been gaining steam in the 1800s and by November of 1885, the Atlantic Council voted to end the drinking of alcohol beginning on July 1st, 1886. Wait, end the drinking of alcohol. Alcohol. So pro. Okay, right. He's using a new French wine, cocoa that did not have wine in it. That's amazing to be like, well, we've got to eliminate alcohol. Keep the cocaine blows. Perfect. Fine. He makes different food favors and oil citrus flavors and added sugar. He kept tinkering with it. He's making coke food, calling it a temper temper and drink down the street at Jacob's pharmacy. The soda counter would do test runs for him. At some point he settled on a formula he had taken on two partners, Frank Robinson and David Doe. They were advertising men and had come up with a new color printing device, but no one really was interested in the color ads. So the men sat down to come up with a name for the new temperance drink. Other similar tonic at the time were botanic blood bomb. I don't think I would take that one. Definitely a round of those Copeland's cholera cure. Catchy. Pierce's pleasant purgative pellets. I love how alliteration was the key. That was ad was. Are you, are you, are you sensing a, a sort of pattern? Yes. Goff's giant globules and Radway's ready relief. Gov, Goff. Goff's. Goff's. G-O-F-F. Goff's. They're not even using alliteration right at Goff's. Robinson made a suggestion. Coca-Cola, which was. That's right. This is corn flakes all over again. Which was basically just the name of the two main ingredients. Then they made the first ad. Coca-Cola syrup and extract for soda water and other carbonated beverages. This intellectual beverage and temperance drink contains the valuable tonic and nerve stimulant properties of the Coca plant and cola nuts and makes not only a delicious exhilarating, refreshing and invigorating beverage, but a valuable brain tonic and a cure for all nervous affections, sick headache, neuralgia, hysteria, melancholy, et cetera. The peculiar flavor of the Coca-Cola delights every palate. It is dispensed from the soda fountain in the same manner as any of the fruit syrups. P.S. Pemberton, chemist and sole proprietor. It sold decently in Atlanta. Pemberton went back to his lab and back to coming up with other medicines. Robinson took over the production and advertising of Coca-Cola. The 14 Georgia soda fountain served Coca-Cola in that year. Now Prohibition had officially kicked off in July in 1886 in Atlanta, but it seemed it wasn't really enforced because you could still buy stuff like Duffy's pure malt whiskey for medicinal use. Oh, so good. Hey, I need some medicine. You got any of that whiskey back there? Yeah, take a shot of medicine. Here you guys, I'm serving medicine. Oh boy, I'm going to need some more medicine. Yeah, yeah, take another rip of that medicine. Keep lining them up. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Pemberton was selling about 720 bottles a day of French wine cocoa, which he now called a temperance drink. So he just renamed his wine saying- Who's enforcing this prohibition? Nobody. It also had increased powers according to him. Ads now said people lived for over 120, 130, 140, even 150 years old by drinking it. So there was no, like nobody was in charge of advertising bullshit at this point. There's absolutely no one in charge. This is- You'll live to be 140. Your dick's never been harder. This is the free market without regulation. Prohibition was not long for the world in Atlanta. Just 10 months after it started, it was over. People wanted to drink and clearly they weren't being able to stop it. David Doe left the Coca-Cola business. So one of his partners is out and new partners came in, pharmacist MP Alexander and Wolfok Walker. Walker would be the salesman of Coca-Cola and also young Charlie Pemberton started working at the company again, though he wasn't now so young. He was 33 years old. Charlie was now known for- But he drinks Coca-Cola. So he's going to, I mean, he's like an eighth of the way through his life. Charlie was now known for his hard drinking and womanizing. On June 6th, Pemberton applied for a patent for Coca-Cola and he was granted it on June 28th in his name only. Prick. Pemberton fell ill again, as he did before. Yeah. Yeah. Then 11- What do you think it's from? I can't imagine. Then 11- The healthy lifestyle he's been living. The last- Morphine and bloat. Morphine and bloat. Then 11 days later, Pemberton sold two thirds of his Coca-Cola rights to a soda fountain owner named Willis Venable and George Loans, who was an old friend. Pemberton got $1,201. Of that, $1,200 was an interest-free loan, which would come out of his future profits from the one third of the company he had left. What? He basically sold it all for a dollar. Okay. And a loan. Great. Pemberton also sold all his equipment and supplies that he used to make Coca-Cola, as well as a copy of the formula. Well, now he's- What is he doing? Well, he's a drug addict. But he's acting erratically, David. Why? Yeah, you want the formula? Yeah. Well, give me the formula. You want the formula? Sure. You need the formula? No. Okay. How about a dollar? Sure. How about a dollar? Isn't it worth a lot? I don't know. I'm going to go get a soda. Later, weirdo. Now, there were also the two guys who had come to the company, right? The guys we just talked about, Alexander Walker, new partners. When they heard about the sale- They were over the moon. That was when they learned that Pemberton had secured the patent in his name only. Oh, right. Even though they were business partners. One pulled out of the business and took his investment and went back to Tennessee the next day. Now, Robinson and Walker were accusing Pemberton of conspiracy to ruin the business. What Robinson didn't know was that Alexander had left because Pemberton had put the patent in his name. So there's another- So he didn't say anything? So that is different. We're talking about there are several guys now involved in the business. So there's Alexander and Walker who came in late. And then there was Robinson and Doe who were the two advertising guys who came in. So Robinson was his other. So you had those four guys. So one of them left. And I believe Doe might have left by now just taking off because he thought it was bullshit. So now you have Robinson and Walker and- Pemberton. So now Alexander leaves and this is when Robinson finds... Robinson doesn't know that Pemberton has sold off or put the patent in his name and then sold it off. But that's why Walker left. Yeah. So Walker just didn't even say anything. Right. Right. Cool dude. So two weeks later, Pemberton told Robinson he'd gotten a patent for Coca-Cola as the sole owner and then had sold two thirds of the rights. And he was like, any more good news, asshole? What? I can't believe when I went into fucking business with a cocaine morphine addict that this wouldn't work out. He's making weird decisions. Now Robinson- It's like he's not all there. Now Robinson's furious. He consulted with a lawyer, John Candler. Now John Candler is the brother of Asa Candler, the guy who had, when Pemberton had fallen ill, taken all the equipment. Oh right. Okay. So he wanted a candler to see if he didn't think he could have all rights. He goes over there to see if he has a case and he's like, yeah, I actually bought all that equipment off that guy for two bucks. Yeah, my brother sold it to me. Yeah. So- So Candler goes to see Pemberton, who is now bedridden, and Pemberton tells Candler that his partners were mistaken. Quote, they have got no interest in Coca-Cola, whatever. I have done what they say, but I never did give them any rights in it. I don't make much difference though. Even if they did have the rights, I don't know how you would get any money out of me. So he's basically saying they don't have the rights and even if they did, I ain't got no cash. So- I'm a drug addict. Things are good. Candler then passed on the case- This has been the shareholders meeting. Candler then passed on the case because there was no money in it. Now remember there are two other partners that he brought in, Loans and Venable. And they had been made partners to promote Coke, but they didn't want to promote Coke now. Venable sold his shares to Loans, who then sold his shares to Walker and a new investor, Mrs. Dozier. Venable then sold the rest of his shares to Joseph Jacobs of Jacobs Pharmacy, which is the first place that served Coca-Cola. Venable and Loans also left the equipment and stock in the basement of Jacobs Pharmacy. Okay. So Jacobs is making Coca-Cola at a soda fountain and Pemberton is supposed to get a royalty of 5% per gallon of Coke made. Right. But Pemberton starts bothering Jacobs for advances on sales. Jesus Christ. He's just a fucking street junkie. Hey man, how many gallons they take? Come on, give me a gallon. I'm talking about future gallon earnings. You're probably going to sell like 10 gallons. Come on, I'll suck your dick for a piece of that gallon. Come on man, give me the fucking money. Coke dick, Coke dick, Coke dick. Come on dude. Come on. That's the story of the beginning of Coca-Cola, just some guy blowing another guy in the basement. Come on, suck your dick for this gallon. Jacobs was not pleased. In October 1887, Pemberton put an ad in the Atlanta Constitution paper, wanted an acceptable party with 20,000 to purchase one half interest in a very profitable and well established manufacturing business. Absolutely no risk and guaranteed 50% profit on investment. Three new investors stepped up and each paid 20,000 for one half interest in Coca-Cola. Pemberton failed to mention to the three new investors that he had already sold off two thirds of Coca-Cola. He's really shady. I mean, if we're counting, I think he's got nine investors. He's slowly made off. Robinson still wants justice. So he contacts Asa Candler, who five years before had managed to swindle Pemberton out of everything. So this is the brother of it. Asa then put his sights on Coca-Cola. First he contacted Jacobs, who complained about Pemberton always hitting him up for money. Asa offered to trade his Coca-Cola rights for stock in a glass company. So Asa's like, all right, check it out. I'll take your Coca-Cola rights. I'll give you stock in this glass company. Then you're good to go. You got Pemberton out of your hair. So Jacobs agrees. He's like, great. As long as fucking junkie Pemberton goes away. The next week, the glass factory burned down. It was not insured. Pemberton's new investors formed the Pemberton medicine company with him. All rights to manufacture his products were given to the new business. The partners immediately began making lemon and orange elixir, Coca-Cola and other medicines. They had no idea the rights to Coca-Cola had been sold off. This is got to be nerve wracking if you're Pemberton a little bit. Oh my God. Gary just wants to get high. Then Charlie Pemberton showed up. Oh boy. He demanded that he run the manufacturing of Coca-Cola. His dad delayed making that call while Charlie went about quote throwing tantrums, boozing and wheedling. I don't know what wheedling is. I think it's what your gardeners are doing. I looked it up. I can't remember. A couple of weeks went by. Then Pemberton told his new partners that he had signed the rights over to Charlie some time ago. Oh to Charlie? Yeah. Jesus Christ. Yeah to Charlie. But he had forgotten because he was high on morphine. Because I was quitting cocaine at the time. So listen, you guys, this is some bad news. I know you three each gave me 20 grand. What the fuck is happening? Okay so I said that my son Charlie could have all the rights to everything. But here's the deal. Here's the deal. You sold. No no no here's the deal. Not my fault. Because I was on heroin. Okay. I'm really. You know what I mean? I was high on my. Hey look at me. I was high on my fucking mind. Yeah no I. So it's Charlie's business. Right. But I don't remember. That's why it's not my fault. Why don't you remember? I saw on heroin. Okay. All right. I was on morphine. Okay. You guys want to get some coke? No. You should not be doing any more cocaine and stop selling the company to everybody. By the way I want you to meet some new partners. God damn it. Meanwhile Candler incorporated the Coca-Cola company with Charlie. Right. So now Asa Candler, the guy who fucked his dad out of money. Yeah. Is now partnering up with his son. Right. And a man who still had some shares, Warren as partners. So this other guy's got shares now. In months Asa Candler bought out Charlie for five hundred dollars. Then he bought almost all of Walker's stake. Walker then hit the road. So there must be really glad he met the Pemberton's. Right. Yeah. Candler Walker then hit the road selling Coca-Cola around the south and Robinson would be the guy manufacturing it. While Asa owns most of the company. Right. Pemberton then convinced his partners that Coca-Cola was trademarked but the formula was not. This meant they could make imitations. So now he doesn't own the company. He doesn't own the company. He doesn't own the rights. But he's going to make the same thing. Just call it something else. That's what he's. So now he's got these guys who invest so much money. He's like hey, I got a new idea. We're going to make it just cause something else. But we already make the goddamn thing. We're going to make it. Stop competing with the business. You sold us you motherfucker. You can make it more. Damn it. This is this is this should be this. This is how to make a story of Coca-Cola is the is the ultimate description of cocaine use. So they tried cranking out what they called first yum yum and then coke. Koke. They did not catch on. Then one of the partners walked away on August 16th 1888. John on August 16th 1888. John Pemberton died at the age of 57 of stomach cancer. His obituary read he was the oldest drug in Atlanta and one of the best known citizens and especially popular gentleman. Asa Candler paid Dr. Pemberton a beautiful tribute of respect. Speaking of his lovable nature and many virtues he he voiced he said the feelings of all present that our profession has lost a good and active member. Asa Candler even served as pallbearer. One of the business partners said quote Dr. Pemberton was in bad health. We did not know what was the matter with him but it was revealed he was a drug fiend. You imagine there were like 80 pallbearers that all been promised right. We're also Paul there. We're not. Hey guys there's a lot of us here. Yeah. Everybody just grab a piece or whatever. Five bucks I could be a pallbearer. Candler then bought the Coca-Cola formula which is the last thing that he had held on to that he kept selling for $600 from Mrs. Pemberton. He also bought the remaining shares from Wolfick Walker and Miss Dozier the last investors. In 1889. That's quite a coup. Yeah. In 1889 he told a reporter Coca-Cola was introduced to the public a little over a year ago in a modest way. Its inventor was unable to devote to it the means necessary for its general introduction to the public. 1892 Asa Candler incorporated the Coca-Cola company with the current legal name. Two years later Charlie Pemberton died. Oh Charlie Pemberton died of an opium overdose. So the son was addicted to hair. Sure. He was 40. Meanwhile Coca-Cola took off. It was considered an intellectual beverage among rich white people. White people the first. Yeah the total worst. It makes your brain better. Oh shit we're better than everyone because we're drinking Coca-Cola. Another reason for it. Another reason for us to be great. To us. But true success came when the Coca-Cola company began bottling it in 1899. Now minorities who couldn't sit at soda fountains could get it. Anyone who had a nickel could buy it and many did. Suddenly with black people now enjoying cocaine middle class white people became concerned about the use of cocaine. Surely. Well now you see you see that black people are doing it. It seems terrible. Other newspapers reported that quote Negro cocaine fiends were raping white women and the police were unable to stop them. Asa Candler caved to the racist pressure in 1903 and removed cocaine from Coca-Cola. It was replaced with more sugar and caffeine. The reason why cocaine got taken out of coke. Yep. Is racism. Is racism. It wouldn't be the most American drink of all time if that wasn't the case. That's just crazy. In 1908 Mrs. Pemberton fell ill. Some women went to Asa Candler and asked if he would give her fifty dollars a month to live on. He said no and she died in September of 1909 of cancer. When the company moved in 1910 Asa Candler ordered all documents that were related to Pemberton and other investors burned. There were no ill feelings about the success Candler had with the company. The Pemberton family believed Coca-Cola would never have been successful under John Pemberton. They would have just been lost like so many other soda tonics at the time. Today in Coca-Cola's Atlanta Museum tour guides tell visitors that Coca-Cola never had any cocaine in it. Really? What the fuck? They can't do that. What's their problem? Should be proud of that past. Because the guy who created cocaine was a fucking drug fiend. Tell the story. Have you been on those tours? You need to spice it up. Oh, I'm sure they're terrible. And then they put sugar in it. And you try some. How about that? It's crazy. But they should get pissed about the Coca-Cola tour. They should fucking tell. And the reason why we stopped using cocaine was because they were worried that black people were raping white women. If you look over here on the right, you'll actually see some of the early bottles. That's actually fascinating. You can see how much thicker the glass. Yes, that the black people were raping. You can see the glass is thicker, which they ended up having to stop because procedurally that was caused. Yeah. Yeah. Raping. Yes. Can I ask a question? Sure. You said something about. And I want to point out everyone, there's a gift shop. So if you guys want to take pictures with this stuff at the end, there's a great opportunity. Yes, the question. Were the black people raping white women? Yes. So they used it because they had drank Coca-Cola. Yes. The black people were drinking Coca-Cola and the white women were being raped. We take cash at the store. We'll take debit at the store. I'm trying to think if there's anything else. And guys, if you have a Pepsi in the store, there's no less rapey soda drink. Oh, no. But actually, this is this is a fun fact. No flash photography on the tour while we're taking it. Wow. Fucking crazy, though. But it wouldn't be America if the number one drink wasn't didn't have a crazy background. I'm curious how long until we have crack beer. I still think cocaine should be in some wines. So I'm on record. I have the states have legalized pot. Have they started putting wine and stuff? No. Remember when we did that that festival, there's not. Oh, yeah, there's but there's totally a pot drink. That was a pot drink. Yeah. Which I haven't tried it yet. I think it's like sprig or something. I think I gave it to you, didn't I? Yeah, but I lost it. I don't know what happened to my weed beverage, man. Fucking there. I'm like Pemberton with my weed sodas. Holy shit. Well, shit, dude. That's fucking crazy. And I think Christine for research on that. She said that to me and she was like, I don't know if there's much here. I ran and I was like, what? Oh, shit. Well, all right, guys. Hope you learned something today. I can't that felt like two episodes. Yeah, it's crazy. Jesus Christ. And I also when I was writing and I had to drive a diagram because I was getting so confused by all. Yeah, no, there's a lot. Well, that's what happens when you run a pyramid scheme or a Ponzi scheme on cocaine. Yeah. Trying to run a business just selling just it turns out there's gonna be nine owners it's like there's not a lot of polygamy CEOs like where you're like you think nine different people are like, uh huh. You're married to him too. You are also married to him. Well, that's strange because he said I was the only that's interesting. All right. And I love the con man basically is the guy who won. Yeah. The guy who comes in and fuck just the guy asshole. Yeah, takes his slowly but surely monopolized. Yeah, he's doing anyway. Pepsi does. All right. He's doing cars. Yeah. Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the dollar podcast. This is the show you're listening to one to give you some my stand updates coming up July 22nd through the 25th. I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin, August 5th. I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there or join me the next night, August 20th, the State Theater in Austin or Texas. If that doesn't work for you, join me August 21st at the rec room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night will be at the Tacoma Comedy Club August 27th. Go to GarethReynolds.com to get tickets for all those dates. I love you.