 You're listening to the dollop. This is a bi-weekly American history podcast. Each week I read a story to my friend, Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. Hey, hi. Good to see you. You don't know? I don't. You don't? No idea. You don't know? I have no idea what you've got on your little thing there. Your little tablet. No, you don't know. I don't know what is on there. God, you want to look at a dude? I'll do one bump. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. They've okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. Nicely done, my friend. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. This podcast is brought to you by our subscribers on Patreon. We thank each and every one of you. It really does help us. Those of you who subscribe and now we really appreciate it. Yes. Yeah. 1934. Is Mark coming? I just let that hang there. Victor Bronco was born in Oakland. He was the son of a black jazz pianist and a Jewish woman. A controversial couple. Classic pairing. Yeah. Just like your classic. You've heard it a million times in that game. Stereotypical 30s, 1930s couple. Oh, what do you think? They got stares? He said he was the neighborhood punching bag because he was, quote, a fat, smart-ass Jewish kid. And because I used multiple syllabic words and my parents were intellectuals. That's not why. Wait, wait, wait. He was a Jew? He was half Jewish and half black. Half Jewish, half black. And so he's saying he got punched because he was Jewish. Because he had a good vocabulary. Because he had a large vocabulary, not because he was half black and half Jewish. Yeah. He was sent from one grammar school to another. I'm just making sure I started this because it seemed like I didn't remember. Okay. I did. Are you okay? Mm-hmm. He was sent to a school for what he called exceptional children. Sure. Is he shining a turd? He became a bully in the seventh grade. He went to college on a football scholarship, but stopped playing and left college after two months. Okay. Bronco also claimed he played in the 1954 Rose Bowl. He claimed. Well, do you see a problem with stopping playing football after two months? No, they hold it open. They hold it on the first day of school. But unfortunately, that's not possible because his college did not go to the Rose Bowl that year. Also, he had dropped out of school. Right. Two strikes. Two ways that make it very hard. Two different ways that it didn't happen at all. Yeah. He worked as a low rent hustler, then as a bookie, and finally he went straight working as a washing machine salesman and then a bouncer. And then got a job flying people to Vegas to gamble. So just the regular chain that a job would follow. Oh, a normal shit. The right trajectory. What you do. Yeah. You sell washing machines. You don't let people into clubs, and then you take people to other cities. There you go. Bing bang boom. And then he realized he could buy houses cheap, fix them up, and sell them. Oh. Oh. Oh. Mm-hmm. The plot thickens. He resold... Oh, he and a couple partners bought shitty houses at low prices, had hippies fix them up, then resold or rented them for a nice profit. Okay. Sometimes they would have hippies fix them up and then the hippies would move in and they'd charge them rent. Well, a lot of people don't realize that after slavery was abolished, hippies were enslaved for a long time. There was an indentured servitude period of the hips. At least 30 years. Yeah. Calling people the H word. Yeah. It's a dark time in American history. Yeah. And yet I wish it was still happening. Yeah. This is around the time he had an epiphany. Okay. He realized other people should hear how he became the man he had become. He had a message to spread. He had a philosophy. He's a motivational speaker. And a way to teach people about life. Okay. Quote, how can I arrange to unselfishly serve the world and profit by it? Okay. What a sweetie. How can I save mankind and make a bunch of money? He started the Institute of Human Abilities. This name is amazing. And people began to follow him. Oh God. Of course. The Institute of Human Abilities. Don't you sometimes think it would just be worth it to just drop it and just say you're Jesus just to get like 30 people to live on a compound with you and just do whatever you say? Doesn't seem like it's that hard. I guarantee you. It just doesn't. I guarantee you we could get at least 20 people to be like, you are Jesus. Most of us, the vast majority of us wouldn't do it for the simple reason that you would get up in the morning and there'd be 20 people going, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hi. How you doing? Do me a favor. Make some pancakes and they'd come over and fuck me. All right, guys, I'm going to turn in for a minute. Keep reading your bibbles. That's pretty commonly pretty commonly how it goes. Yep. The Institute of Human Abilities was set up as a real estate corporation in late 1969. So it's very clear what's happening there. Baracko bought a 16 acre property in Lafayette, California and named it Morehouse. The grounds had a main residence and houses, a studio, a house. It says house trailer. It's got to be horse trailer. House trailer. A house trailer is a funny thing to picture. Yeah. But it's at the end of the house, there was a trailer with a house in it. Yeah. There are tennis courts and assorted junk cars. The buildings were and still are painted a bright purple because that was his wife's favorite color. Sure. There was more to this than just profit. He also taught what was called responsible hedonism. Okay. And this was his bigger plan for the Institute. Quote, as the damn thing spreads, we suck up the outside. Pretty soon we own the butcher, the garage, everything. Dig it? Now if it turns out that we do the whole thing, we sell everybody love, then we'll start selling hate. The same machine will work. I'm sorry. Many questions. So his plan is to get a bunch of hippies in there. He's got this hedonism mumbo jumbo thing that he's going to sell. This philosophy, this way of living a life. He's going to sell it to people. Right? Right. You got to get in to learn about it. You got to pay. Sure. And then if that works and everyone is fucking turned on, everyone in the world jumps on board, then you fucking flip it and you sell hate. Flip that shit. He's still flipping stuff. Well you still, you just come out flipping houses, flipping attitudes. Now you've done love and then you turn around and you go, hey, what about selling this shit? Fuck you! And everyone's like, yeah, fuck you. And then you sell fuck you. And then what is the, and then the next part? You just make more money. It's more profit. Just because, okay, sure. It's just because people are just buying ideas. Right. They're buying the idea of how to live. It's like when Garth Brooks became Chris Gaines. It's exactly like that. What isn't? In 1972, a book came out published by Rolling Stone titled Mind Fuckers, a source book on the rise of acid fascism in America, including material on Charles Manson, Mel Lyman, Victor Barranco and their followers. Wow. So that's who he's grouped in with right now. That's a good, I mean, we're just one shy of a Mount Rushmore, which is what, right? Those are three pretty nice faces to put on this. Yeah, true. But so he's in a group. That's a good pairing. He's a fucking grouping. Quote from the book. A new kind of fascism has emerged in the wake of the so-called acid revolution. Born of boredom, loneliness and intense spiritual hunger, it has captured some of America's most creative young minds. In a period of extreme personal liberation, it has caused more and more believers to opt for servility to let their lives, their careers, pleasures, loyalties, even choice of lovers be controlled by the Holy Wim of one man. That's what I'm saying. That could be us. I know. That's what I'm saying. But that's, that's the end game for the dollop. We're pretty soon going to be dollop houses. Dude, I'm very excited for the next chapter. I know. Think of all the pancakes. Oh, God. The pancakes. Pancakes. Why did you do it? For the pancakes. We did it for the pancakes. For 400 pounds each. What was your plan? Just to eat a lot of pancakes. It was the way we sat down and we said, how are we going to get the most pancakes? Well, it started from a conversation where we both said we love pancakes. And how do we get all the pancakes? So he's teaching in the purple buildings. He's teaching people how to do this stuff. I mean, that's the right off the bat if you're going into purple buildings to learn, you've got to be a little like, it's like a doctor. Yeah. The Institute of Human Abilities published Aquarius magazine that had ads for courses like basic sexual sensuality, a weekend with Vic Barranco. Oh boy. Now the weekend with Vic Barranco sometimes was a weekend without Vic Barranco. He would pay a bunch of money and sometimes he just sent his kids to tell people what he thought. So your weekend with Vic Barranco could also be not that at all. It's like when you go see a show and it's the understudy. It's like if you went to see Batman and Carol was playing. Interesting. Okay, so different. Still people do put up the Carol signal in the sky if they want some lesbian action. Basic sensuality course description. Oh boy. Two days, which will show you the physical and conceptual techniques to overcome impotency and frigidity, to increase the duration and intensity of orgasm, to train partners and to experience pleasurable childbirth. Now my guess is that he showed up for a lot of those. I bet he showed up for all of those. Also covers completely the concept of responsible hedonism, $45. Now you as a man did not hear you just went right past the term pleasurable childbirth, but every woman listener went what the fuck, which is the appropriate response. It's exciting. Let him show you how to use your genitals that he doesn't have. The Institute also recommended mutual masturbation as quote, a surefire way to a perfect orgasm every time. According to Masters and Johnson, the average number of contractions per orgasm for women is six to nine and eight to 12 for men. But we've had people at the Institute have as many as 250 contractions per orgasm. Okay. First of all, how does a man, are they, how are they, this is like during a day. This isn't like back to back orgasms. We're going to get to that. Cause there's no guy who's like, I'm coming again. Well you don't know that you didn't go to the school. 12 times? No, contractions, just contractions. So what does that mean? Your dick just jiggles? Yeah. When your dick, you know, the dick, you have a cock seizure. I think it's technically called the dick jiggle. Oh, I've read about the dick jiggles. They're the contractions. You know, the contractions. Now there's a course called man and woman. Course description. This course deals with the roles and the language of the sexes and with the dynamics of the relationships these create. The course teaches how to interpret mannies and womanies and how to understand the math of one and two. $45. That seems like the math is really in the price. That seems like that course should just be called total bullshit. Yeah. Most importantly, yes. So let's, let's just, let me tell you right now. There's me a lot of questions during this. Let's just stop and take a question real quick. So the mutual masturbation is so there are just a bunch of people in a room masturbating together. Yep. That's what's happening. So he's just for $45. He invites you into a purple barn to just jerk off. Six people come in and they, he hasn't take off their, you know, it's the sixties or early seventies. So he goes, everyone take off your clothes and then, and then he tells them how to stroke or finger each other. As only he can. He's, he's Victor Bronco. Oh boy. That is. Are we going to be able to say our names and where we're from or do we just strip down right away, man? Oh man. It's going to be a long dollop for you. Oh God. And most importantly, that laugh, Bronco taught for a hefty price, the meaning structure and teaching techniques, the meaning structure and what techniques teaching techniques. So he's teaching how to teach how to be a teacher. Sure. With a lot of money, he would teach you how to run your own commune. Oh boy. Which you could then franchise as a more house. Oh boy. The Institute grew to be a chain of communes so profitable that people in Berkeley called him the Colonel Sanders of the commune scene. Wow. Commune Sanders. He was now rolling in cash. Communes were huge at the time. There were over 5,000 nationally and around 1 million people living in them. So great that the idea of like this movement is about sort of like independence from corporation and he's like, yep, setting up shop, dumbass. One teacher said, quote, how to not get ripped off $45 bucks. One teacher said, quote, this is a religious institution. Really? I mean, it's a business. True. But the Catholic Church is too. It's the same hustle and a different package, but we fit into the tenor of the times. What with the communes and all. The Institute is a good scam. We call ourselves hustlers and the other people marks. Victor hustles their asses and their souls. He takes their dough to feed himself, but he sees to it that they win too. Because of the masturbating. Well, they're getting out of it. The profound knowledge of how to live life. All the knowledge of Charles Manson's partner. They're getting the double jurgle off knowledge while their banks are emptied. And then everyone walks away. Good because he's getting the money and they're learning how to jerk each other off and he could open a sperm bank to while he's at it. That's what I'm talking about. The original Morehouse became known as Lafayette Morehouse as other franchises popped up. Bronco kept expanding his commune business and forging ahead with his research. Right. Air clothing. At some point, his research led to the three hour orgasm. You weren't lying. The three hour orgasm. I mean, good God. My first. Can you make it stop Victor? My first question is why would you want that? Why am I in a Chinese prison? Oh, you just sleep for two days and wake up the next day and your legs are killing you. Like, I feel like I rode a horse all day yesterday. My fucking dick is killing me. This led to demonstrations of the three hour orgasm. How long were those? Right. The year is 1976. Oh boy. Quote. He had this is from a woman, a young woman at the time. I believe she was 22. He had this idea that we would do a show and that we'd invite people to come and watch. I really felt special that this was going to happen. He had it be on the gynecological table to make it clear this was educational as well as fun because erotic to. Well, a gynecological table always says educational as well as. Yeah. We want you to be comfortable and turned on. Now get on this sterile metal table that's cold. It was just him showing the coming, having me come. It was for three hours. It was a big haul and it was packed. Oh my God. He did me. And the whole time he talks. Shut the fuck up. Shut the fuck up. I think he's I don't know what I mean. I don't know if he's fucking her, but I know that he's like a prolonged fingering kind of thing happening. He had to do everything. There's all all the things, but I don't know if he fucked her, but she did say he did me three hours. He did. But they called it doing. They called it. They called the the the jerking off doing. It's called the deliberate orgasm. And the whole time he so he did me. Are there non deliberate orgasms? He's just waiting in line at the bank. You know, fuck me. Fuck. Damn it. I got to get a hold on this. I'll actually use the ATM. Excuse me. Excuse me. I accidentally orgasm. I did not mean to do that. Whoops. That was not a deliberate orgasm. He did me in the whole time he talked and demonstrated what he was doing. Really bang her hard. You just see him right now, right? Because he's a smoker. So I just see a cigarette hanging on. He's just fucking diddling her. And he's like, OK, so I'm rubbing the clit right now. Still rubbing her. Look at that. Look at that. All right. I'm still rubbing the clit. All right. It's like in the meaning of life, there's that scene where John Cleese has a class of students just bangs his wife in front of him and explains it. I bet that is partially based on this, which is a movement. I bet it is. But at the time, this isn't as uncommon as you would wish it was. Listen, I'm ready. If we're ready to get back into this system. It was three hours long and he had me take breaks. It's a long time. We're going to take a Union Five, just a Union Five smoke break, guys. All right. Everybody knows you can't come for over 30 under Union rules. We're going to mop up and lay down some new tarp and then we'll get back at it. It was a long time to just lay there and get off. We had cigarette breaks. When that demonstration was over, people ran to every available space on the property so that they could get off to get the women off. It was really the women. After that, he decided to have it be that he was going to certify people and wrote a course to teach people how to do it. What? So now you can get certification. So now he's a fuck doctor. This eventually became known as the deliberate orgasm. So he he monetized relentless fingering. Well when you put it like that, it would go on so long that sometimes students passed out, fell out of chairs and pictures fell off walls. And he kept the fucking going around. A former member of the commune named Cauliflower. Sure. Cauliflower power. That attachment to a single sexual partner was frowned upon. Yeah. And most members were polyamorous, sleeping in a group bed and regularly rotating sexual partners in what was loosely considered group marriage. Now that's very common to cults. Can you imagine if you like live next door? Oh, to that? And then you know, there I didn't go into it, but the next neighbors were very not happy. Yeah. They were not happy. God damn it. There's fucking 50 hippies fucking on the lawn. Yeah, totally. Oh, oh, oh my God. Oh my God. But there's there's some and I and I tried to investigate it, but there's so much. This was a tough. This is the hardest one ever written. But but there is something to to breaking down a person grooming them for sex in a cult situation. Right. And and there is a control that is greatly associated with making people think that getting fingered in front of people is great. Right. I mean, like you groom them for that. The way you would you brainwash, so you would groom a child from molestation. Right. Groom an adult to break down all their sexual norms and think it's cool to do this shit that really isn't cool. Anyway, that's fun. Three hours. So all the while he was seeking legitimate to legitimize his practices. Sure. And that came in 1978. Oh, God. Lafayette Morehouse became more university. OK. He managed to get the school approved by the state of California to grant Ph.D.s in sex in 1979. What? I mean, California's got four. Ph.D. would be great when you just like you just go back to someone's house and they're just like, and you're in good hands. I'm actually a fuck doctor. What you lay on that bed? Check out my degree. Right there. Says I can fuck. You can see I'm a veterinarian and I also have a minor in fucking. Right up there. I'm mostly just I'm mostly just focused on the fucking now. You know what I mean? I have a major in fucking and my Ph.D. is in fingering. He told me he had majored in fucking, but I think he minored because no, just like an hour and a half. So boring. Whatever. So he managed to get so you managed to get the school approved at that time. California wasn't really big on rules and regulations for who could grant post education degrees and at more there was a bachelor of humanities, a master of humanities, a doctor of philosophy and lifestyles and sensuality, a doctor of sensuality. And it was all for profit. You just you don't know what he is and you just go to the doctor's office because you have a head cold and he's like, yeah, drip your pants. Why don't you just go ahead? I'm just going to finger your wife. Tell me your symptoms. Her arm is broken. Yeah, I'm aware of that. I'm going to break something else. I think if I if I get her to come, it's going to set. I'll tell you in three hours, my arm is going to feel like it's broken. Quote, it's like a boat. The woman is the steer and the man is the motor. And once you can relax men and settle down into slavery in the motor room, what a gas. They take care of you, sexually feed you and clothe you. They take care of all your creature comforts. And all you got to do is shovel coal, shovel coal. Yeah, I'm not really sure what that meant, but it was in there. So I didn't want to take it out. I mean, that's a that it's a motor. You're shoving coal in the motor, right? And then you're like, is you're coming along? Yeah, it's not great. You need to practice an analogy in the room before you go public with it. You know, I keep shoveling coal inside of the boat's pussy. Excuse me. They said the foundation of their philosophy and lifestyle was the concept of perfection. They believe that people and situations are right the way they are, but include the potential for change. Then they focused on making people come in front of large crowds. So it all makes sense. Because that's how you get perfection. You make people come in front of other people. The movement spread and grew. One of those studying at the university was a man named Ray Vetterline. He began studying with Victor in 1969, 1968. Ray eventually earned Morehouse's highest private qualification in extended orgasm in 1989. Yes, I'm a doctor of orgasms. For a very long time, I can do this. He's just got huge fingers. So he has a PhD in long, long coming. Sure. Right. The long come. Absolutely. But the movies. That's an Olympic sport, right? Yeah. The longest come. Yes, that was that. But that was about that's the movie based. A quote from Ray. There's really no such thing as separate orgasms or clitoral orgasms or anal orgasms. It's all an orgasm. Yeah. And the way to get a woman at that place is to have more attention on the woman than you do on yourself. So far, this is knowledge for idiots. Yeah. How do you think you get a woman orgasm? By jerking yourself off? Yeah. You come and then she does? What do you know? I get my wife to come as I look at I go look at me. Yeah. Look at my dick. Yeah. Look at this shit. Yeah. A lot of that. Where most men fail is they're always like, when do I get my entitlement? You have to totally take all the attention off of yourself and put all attention on the woman to the point where you're inside the woman's psychic energy field. And when the woman is having an orgasm or building towards an orgasm, I personally feel as if it's happening to me. Residents call this the deliberate orgasm or D oing. So you are deliberately making some orgasm. Now Dave, this is just horseshit talk to get women to come into the program because they think men are selfish in bed. Yeah. Yeah. The whole the whole premise is like, aren't you just supposed to try to make the other person get the idea? What I know about sex is that you both want to have fun. Yeah. And you don't. Your job is to not just be like, oh man. Yeah. I was great for me. Like two cigarettes, baby. Why are you crying? Why are you putting on your clothes? But people who knew of the campus thought something was up. Just the Contra Costa Times started writing not so flattering articles on the goings on at more universities. How can you be slanderous towards such an institution? I don't know. They're just how can you be angry at bang you? They're just trying to make happiness. Yeah. In 1981 and 1982, Moore filed three lawsuits against the paper and all were dismissed. As a matter of fact, Victor enjoyed suing lots of people and businesses such as the Contra, the County of Contra Costa, the San Francisco Chronicle, who called more the Academy of Carnal Knowledge and also his parents. Oh, really? He sued his parents. Sure. Well, his dad wouldn't bang his mom in front of him. One resident of the university was quoted as saying, we'll consider suing anyone. Boy, they really sound a little trashy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're suing you. So when you fucking paper, fuck you. Fuck you. We'll sue you. What you say that we're like we like to fuck fuck you. We're going to sue you. We do like to sue you. Three hours. Oh, the school kept cranking out degrees. Victor's own wife got her degree in sensuality from more university in 1980 after she became the Dean of Moore's Sensuality Department, the Dean of Sensuality. Yeah. Do you know why I called you into my office? Because you need something special because you're in trouble. But not for spanking. No. I'm going to finger you for four days. I got to be I got to be I got a job. So I can't. Yeah. And I have a job. No, but no, you understand what I'm saying. I can't do four days. I have to go to my job. Come on. Get your fingers ready. Hope your arms ready to get tired. Yeah, I don't want to go. Welcome to bang you. I think I'm going to UC Santa Barbara. No, they don't have any degrees in geography. What? Or just listen, listen to me. Clear your schedule. Cancel your doggy style class and wet dreams. And then just get over here and just tuck her that shoulder out. The Dean of Sensuality has spoken. Oh, a little hot for these panties, isn't it? No. Yes, it is. Get so hot over here. School kept cranking out degrees, right? She gets her undergrad in sensuality. Eleven of the school's courses were created by Victor. He said the mutual simulation program was, quote, making friends with another's crotch. That's always fun to become crotch buddies. Making friends with another's crotch. That is a that is a very nice way to talk about sex, though. She came over. We had a couple of cocktails. I made friends with a crotch. We're going out Thursday. You guys, you two make friends with each other's crotch. You guys shake crotch hands. But you know, this is also a place where he's making spit on your friends crotch. This is a place where you make strangers do it. Right. So to me, yeah. Yeah. Jerk off, Larry. Julie, you you get your Julie suck Ben's dick. Welcome to college. Yo, in the mid 1980s, California started cracking down on private education schools like more. Students went for the first time to the university. Oh, my God. They were a bit shocked. Why? What did they see? Quote, it was an eye opener. Here were all these old limos and people sitting around in their underwear peeling potatoes. Oh, my God. Sorry. What? Sorry. We must be lost. We're actually looking for more university. And all I see are a bunch of naked sexed out hippies peeling potatoes. Yes. Also, you guys have a lot of limos. I guess I would like french fries, but I would also like to discuss why you're in your underwear. We don't wash our hands. They also said it was really filthy. A guy named Jim came out of a building buckling his pants, followed by a woman who was followed by a child. But again, cults, you fuck in front of the because you get them used to the sexuality. So when if you're raised in a cult, you by the time they want you, you're you're ready. That's normal. Right. Boy, that is Victor said he was too busy to speak to the inspectors, but they found some literature quote equipment to take to class a towel, a mirror and all body parts. Oh, my God. A towel and a mirror. A mirror. Yeah. Oh, so weird. Watch your balls. Watch your balls. Yeah, there you go. The inspectors also were not allowed to see any classrooms. They also couldn't see the nursery because, quote, a child had fallen and is on the verge of dying. Jesus Christ. It's more reason to see the nursery as far as they were allowed to see. You can't see the nursery because the kids dying in there. He fell when I was banging the teacher. Yeah. Hey, I got an A. Hey, got an A baby. They were allowed to see one building that had a video studio with a gynecological table in the center there. In there, there was a library. There's a library of videotapes with labels like Vic's birthday party. Oh, boy. Well, how do we celebrate at this university? It can't be good. There are hundreds of tapes. The sex acts were always taped in front of students. Oh, my God. As far as curriculum, there was no reading requirements. Curriculum. There were no financial records. There was no verification of faculty. They found 11 thesis by faculty. Good. One was about how Victor had made a woman come for seven hours and she questioned why her boyfriend couldn't do that. Julie, I like your thesis a lot. It makes me look great. It's really good. It makes me look fucking great. Your boyfriend doesn't like it. Hey, you know what you should do your thesis on? You know how I made you come for seven hours? Seven hours. Does your boyfriend do that? Seven hours. Does your boyfriend do that? No. Okay, there's your thesis. Great. What are you talking about? It's all right there. So fucking write it up. My topic sentence. Why my boyfriend couldn't make me come for seven hours? I love your thesis. Thank you. That boy. I mean, but seven hours. It's a long time to come. It's insane. I don't want that. No, nobody does. Who wants to be on either end of that? Seven hours. Can you get me some food? Moore University failed 108 out of 111 evaluation points by the inspectors. I'm shocked that they passed three. The inspectors recommended the school be denied its status as a post-education university. A hearing was held and Moore's lawyers came threatening lawsuits against the inspectors saying the inspectors were lying. Moore University appealed the inspector's reports. The state was changing its regulatory system at the time and the procedures the inspectors had used were not yet made official. Oh fuck. So Moore won the appeal. Oh my God. Then while the state was coming up with new regulations, somehow Moore was grandfathered in becoming officially an endorsed California post-education university. What? How? I mean that one how? That's just pure California baby. What a mistake. It's like the late 80s. It's crazy. Moore University then expanded to New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Atlanta and other cities. In the early 90s, the university started taking in homeless people to give them a place to live. But critics saw this as a PR move and a way to avoid attacks. When criticized, Moore would make it look like the people were going after the university because they were helping homeless people. By creating a charity for the homeless, the school also got tax benefits. Jesus Christ. Can you imagine if you're a homeless person and you're like, now I should tell you, your new home will have food and you have, but you're going to be fucking the whole time you're here. Where's the what? Yeah. So I know that there's the downside is you'll just be coming the whole time. Oh, America's a PTSD man. I can't, I can't do that. Go into that purple barn and fuck this guy's wife in front of his son. Okay. The charity was called Turn On To America. Turn On To America? Why not just come USA? But this created a person sized hole. Excuse me? Yeah, that's how I wrote it. I thought it was a pretty good turn of phrase. Yeah. I think that's what this university is about. Two reporters, two reporters from the Contra Costa Times could now pose as homeless people and get in. What a great gig. Yeah. I got to go undercover and fuck you. It wasn't very normal inside. There was now a closed circuit TV system that played sex tips, gossip and party scenes from school parties. Oh God. It's like, it's like a bar. Oh God. The school's elite lived on the hill on campus, but homeless were not allowed near it. The reporters found out that inside the building on the hill, women served men while dressed in tiny costumes without underwear. They were only serving men while the men played cards, cards, drank beer and smoked. The reporters, it's like an Uggs Club. It is. It is insane. But with cocktail ages without panties. Obviously, and it's obviously there's brainwashing and I'm sure there's a lot of live, but look, if you're just sitting in a room where you play cards, drink and smoke and then just walk around naked, you know, maybe don't rock the boat. This is 20 years this has been going on. I mean, pretty good run. Pretty good run. Did you want to get into that main house? I mean, talk about looking like an orphan looking in on a big meal. The reporters also took a course on basic sensuality, which including having people look at their genitals in a mirror and homework with questions about whether they would have sex with men, midgets and paraplegics. Jesus God. The mirror thing is so weird. Well that's the whole thing. The idea of like being somewhere like you have you have a dick that you can look at, but a woman can't stare straight into her vagina. So the mirror thing now in a classroom setting, it's weirder. It's just the idea of strangers just being like, look at your gen. Oh, there we go. Look at her clitoris. Right there. See that? I don't feel sweetie. We're looking at your genitals. I feel terrible right now. Oh, right there. Look at them. I don't want to do this. Look at this. I'm stopping the podcast. Your skin is strange right there. Pull back her skin. Hey guys, look at my balls. Stop it. Get the mirror under my ball bag. I'm going to punch my balls right now. All right. Tweet her nipples like you're tuning a radio. All right. Good thing we got these mirrors. The school made its own money. Fuck bucks. Which was made from old cigarette packs. What? That now have the university seal on. Yeah, that's right. Marlboro dollars. They would take Paul Mall cigarettes and they would undo the undo the undo the cigarette packs. That was like flat and they cut off the bottom and then on the inside where where it didn't have any writing. They would write the university insignia and that was their own monetary system. So impossible to counterfeit. Well this checks out. It says it's money on the inside of this cigarette pack. Well, you really fall into some good cash. I didn't know we had a billion dollar pack to get a doctorate in 1994. 1994. It should have said 1894. Yeah, it says 1994. That's when this was happening. Normal. It would cost you forty three thousand two hundred dollars. Perfect. Also in 1994, the Contra Costa Times reported that more had one point seven million in real estate holdings and brought in an average revenue of one million a year. In 1992, a former student student wrote to the state of California. It wasn't actually said they wrote to like the whatever the fucking name was too long, but it was it's basically the people who do the postdoc stuff. Right. It's not like sending a letter to Santa where you know, you know, California, California, I have bad news. And he said in the letter that he was encouraged to use illegal drugs which were sold on the campus and that the school engaged in prostitution and that you actually had to pay for sex or you were threatened with expulsion. But in a way, I don't know. Amazing. How do I go to use my loans? Now listen, you're in trouble. You got to buy you got to buy a whore every every two to three days. Where's your cigarette pack money? I didn't know that. But in a way, I bet you legally it's not prostitution because you've invented a currency that isn't legitimate. Oh, God. So I don't know how that works. I've never. Oh, that would be a great argument to hear. Your honor, while my while the defendant did make people fuck and he gave them money, the money isn't real. Therefore none of this matters. None of this is real. OK, the state demanded a response to the letter. But more university just sued the student who had written the letter for one hundred and twenty million dollars. Well, either way, who he then apologized. But the end was near. Boy, I don't have one hundred and twenty million dollars. But the end was near for more university. Every five years, the university had to be inspected and re-upped. That was pretty much the end of it. The walls came crashing down and the school was closed in 1997. But that did not mean that the fingering movement ended. They still existed. They still teach and they're still getting bigger than ever. Ray Vetterline. Remember, I brought up Ray earlier. No. From Ray. Ray was the guy I had a quote from about. Oh, right. Yes, yes, yes. Ray was one of those who learned the ways and spread the movement. He spent years at Lafayette Morehouse and eventually had over 40 years experience giving women long orgasms. He went on, according to The New York Times, to, quote, achieve fame in sex circles by claiming to lengthen the average female orgasm to 20 minutes. It's nothing. So I don't know. But they don't know about the Gareth method. That's for sure. It's nothing. 20 minutes. Come on, guys. What is this fucking amateur? What are we doing here? Come on. Oh, is that what you learned how to do, Ray? La la. Fucking bend over, Ray. I'm going to show you something. All right, Ray. So guys like Ray were out there spreading the movement of fingering. I wish it wasn't called spreading the movement. That's what I put down. It's just a very. I'm going to use a lot of different terms. It's going to be they're going to be horrible for this is over. One of those women he taught was a woman named Nicole Day Dawn. Nicole Ding Dong. Day Dawn. Day Dawn. Day Done. Day Done. D-A-E-D-O-N-E. Day Done. Day Done. Like when it's night. Yes. Day Done. Nicole was born in 1956 in Los Gatos, California. I guarantee you right now someone listening to this podcast, it just got really bummed because they realized that this is a little bit about them. They're like my Nana. They're like, oh, I've done this. She's born in 1956 in Los Gatos, California. She attended San Francisco State University and got a degree in general communications and was on her way to get a doctoral degree with a focus on semantics, which is a branch of linguistics and logic concerned with meaning and word relations. It's like a degree in being annoying. Well, it actually means she knows language. She knows words. Me too. And she knows how to use them. Oh boy. So she's 27 years old going to school to get a post degree. And then her father dies one day. He died in prison. He was there for molesting children. Nicole completely broke down. She says her dad never did anything to her as a child, but quote, my body turned to stone and crumbled. She quit school and opened the 111 minute art gallery. She then turned to Buddhism. Then came a night that changed her life. Nicole was at a party where she met a Buddhist man. He told her he had been practicing quote contemplative sexuality. Where you just sit around all day and be like, man, it'd be fun to bang. It's so great. Oh, wait, that was my entire teenage years. That's true. She was intrigued because who wouldn't be right? This Buddhist man invited her to lie down naked and spread her legs. Then he set a timer and stroked her clitoris while he narrated what he saw while looking at her vagina. Feels a little sterile. He said the colors of her vagina went from coral to deep rose to pearlescent pink. She had a mood pussy and her life was changed. Oh, now you're angry. Now you're tired. You're thinking of dragons. You're thinking of dragons right now. Nicole said quote, I just broke open and the feeling was pure and clean in a strange way. I think at that moment I decided to live. For me, there wasn't anything going on down there. There was nothing. It was like I was so contracted and tight and wanting to be a good person and be good that I couldn't actually feel. I couldn't get a whole big world of sensation that's now available in my genitals. For me, it was an unbelievable breakthrough. Good thing she went to that party. She quit working at the gallery to devote her life to making sex and pleasure open. I'm giving you guys my two weeks. I'm going to focus on masturbating. I'm sorry. How are you going to make money? Oh, don't worry about it. I've met a Buddhist at a party. What? I it was great to see you guys. Okay. Start finding my replacement. I'm going on a finger tour. Did you know your vagina could be coral? Okay, we're going to close the gallery. Why? It's just weird now. She said quote, I have a legacy to bring light into an area of the world where there's a lot of darkness. That's not literally about a vagina. Yeah. Now this is where her declaration of what happened and others is a bit different. Oh boy. Nicole says she spent years training with Ray. That's what she told the New York Times in a puff piece in 2009. There's no mention of Victor Bronco. But when she started teaching her version of spiritual fingering, which from what I could find was around 2001, the story seems like it was a bit different. The history is very murky on Nicole. They don't. And I assume that's for a reason. Nicole has the shortest Wikipedia page of anyone of her stature I have ever seen in my life. Interesting. It's about six lines. Jesus. The official record is that Nicole founded a business called One Taste in San Francisco in 2001. She founded a business called One Taste. One Taste. Okay. Like Victor, it was established as a business. One Taste says it is dedicated to researching and teaching the practices of orgasmic meditation and slow sex. But the central focus is female orgasm and sexuality, specifically OMing. Proceed. Or as it's called, orgasmic meditation. Victor Bronco's was called DOing or deliberate orgasm. So obviously they're very different. They're, you can't see any sort of connection. Now one is meditative. It seems as if the growth of One Taste was fairly slow at first. She opened two retreats in San Francisco and New York and she began teaching her methods. The slow clit jam, as I like to call it. There were workshops, weekend retreats and one-on-one coaching programs. The earliest I could find an ad, which is now gone, but could be found through Google cache, thank you Google cache, was from the Learning Annex. Do you remember the Learning Annex? Yeah. The Learning Annex, I was going to say was when I wrote this, but is it still exists. As a matter of fact, I looked it up and hilariously saw some people teaching comedy there. Oh my God. The Learning Annex is a private adult education school that was founded in New York. They had classes or schools or whatever they were in every single city in America. They were fucking everywhere. I remember in the 90s because they taught everything. Anything someone could teach and people would pay to learn, the Learning Annex had it. They used to teach standup comedy, which is probably the best way to learn it in a classroom taught by some guy who really needed money. That's the way to do it. It still exists. People who are not good at subjects teaching others how to do it. So what better and more comfortable environment to have someone rub your clit in front of an audience? That's our punchline. Anyway, sure enough. In 2006, Nicole shows up teaching a Learning Annex class based in San Francisco, a two hour course on the introduction to orgasmic meditation. Course description, learn the tools you need to experience greater sensual freedom with this hands on offering. Hands on. This open and safe introduction will start you on a journey to experience a deeper conscious contact with pleasure and desire that can transform your life. At the bottom of the cache aid ad is Nicole's bio. It says she is a graduate of a female orgasm course. It says she went to SF State and then it says quote, she has spent the last seven years devoting the energy to her energy to the work of Dr. Victor Barranco, founder of Moore University and that she's been teaching for 11 years. What? So we know she started teaching in 1995 based on that. And from the way it sounds, she possibly went to more university and did some very serious female orgasm. Sure. But we can't say for sure that that's true because we just found this in a bio she wrote and a learning annex ad. Right. I don't know why you'd lie to bio for a learning annex ad in 2006. But hey, right. Like Victor, she was turning fingering into a business. Wow. So she doesn't mention Victor and there is no record of her and Victor having studied together on our materials or Wikipedia or anywhere else. Both one taste and more say she only took three classes except Google cache where things can't be erased disagrees. Now one would not want to be associated with Victor as he did not end his life with a good reputation. He died in 2002 in Hawaii. He was at one point prosecuted for distributing LSD, the clear exploitation of young women was now obvious and the fact that it was a cult. So when setting up a new clit rubbing business, it's best not to be associated with the grendel of female orgasms. And she is not. While building her new vagina business, San Francisco Nicole wasn't alone. She had met another clit rubbing practitioner in 1999 named Robert Kendall. Robert had gone into sexuality when he had an honest discussion with his wife at Burning Man in 1998. Perfect place. Perfect place. They tried swinging but didn't like it. They ended up in a quote class about sex where Robert found he knew little about women and so quote decided to dedicate my energy and attention to my sex life. And that's how he met Nicole. The two started a school together in 2002. They merged with another company in 2003. Then in March 2004, they opened a center. They quickly got 10 volunteers and were running a yoga program, which at some point became a nude yoga program. Wow. And they were serving raw food and smoothies. Massages were offered. This was all to quote, bring the concept of orgasm to the world. And it quickly took off. The building looked like a coffee shop so people would often wander in and these sales pitches would begin. Can I get a venti? Sorry, where's the menu? Have you ever come for like four hours? Do you have cappuccino? In my pussy? Hi. Look me in the eyes. Are you scared to look people in the eyes? Are you scared of intimacy? Do you guys have tea or biscuits? Look at me. I just I see a sadness. What did you say when I ordered a coffee? Would you like to rub my clit? Don't look me in the eye. Why are you scared to look people in the eyes? I just came. Yeah, you came for coffee and your whole life is being opened up. I'll play with your clit. Do you guys have coffee in the clit room? Classes began with the usual spiritual we can make you better promise everything to get people into the building and then try to put them into the orgasmic meditation classes. By now she had both the one taste urban retreat center and the insight institutes central research center. These names. Yeah. Well, she did study semantics, didn't she? Jesus. It's not like Victor who was like, no, the fuck room. Yeah. I'm living in the Connie place. Like she's she knows what she's fucking doing with words. Welcome to Jizz. One of the things the class would do is, quote, show how a person can access raw sensuality anytime, anywhere with anyone. OK, that just just for just so everyone knows that to me sounds terrible. Sounds a little rapey. You shouldn't want to experience raw sensuality anytime, anywhere. I can see you're looking at those French bread pizzas. I don't want to do this right now. Let me finger you. It would also, quote, reveal a set of specific tools which will help you unlock emotional blocks that prevent you from living life fully. OK, that's fine. Unlocking emotions. Very important. Never heard it before. Did you know the lock was in your pants? Let me use the key. OK. This is how O.M.ing works. O.M.ing. First the man and woman build a nest out of pillows and a yoga mat. So they make a fort. She lays in the nest. Bottomless with a shirt on and yeah, shirt on and bottomless and spreads like a pig. You're going to just this is O.M.ing. Sorry. I guess she is like porky pig. That's a weird way to put it. Could you leave the class, please? That's very disruptive. A lot of things sound like porky the pig. Wait, are we doing like a porky pig thing here? So what? She's dressed like a fucking loony tune. She lays in the nest bottomless and spreads her legs. He puts on rubber gloves and put some of the one taste proprietary organic lube on. Sounds very erotic so far. It's not supposed to be. Are you ready to get turned on by a pap smear? You don't have to put gloves on if you are in a relationship with the person doing the fingering. Sure. If it's a stranger, you use a glove. Of course. Yep. He massages her legs and looks at her clit. Look at that. That's called the noticing phase. Hey, I found it. It was right here on your vagina. Now during the noticing, he narrates what he sees. Your clit. He breaks down the vagina verbally. You mean like a drill sergeant would do a new recruit? No, you're supposed to use- You're the grossest vagina I've ever seen in my life. You're so barely a pussy, you're almost a dick. Look at the state of this. You got hairs here, no hairs here. You're not going to make it past two hours of coming, you little baby. It's the opposite. Oh. You're supposed to use non-value terms and use no judgment. Non-value terms being- So you go like this. Well, your clit is very red and bulbous. I'm going to cum. I see that you have a pubic hair that is pointing up towards the ceiling. Thank you. And your lips are very full and swollen and they look like happiness. That's what you're supposed to do. This is a great nest. Then the dude gets in a position- Just like a regular nest, if you fingered her, would the mother no longer treat her as her own? So I think he gets on her left and he uses his right thumb at the opening of her vagina. The hitchhiker. And the tip of his left index finger goes onto her clit. She can then tell him if he should move his hands at all and whether to move faster or apply more pressure, et cetera. The dude is just supposed to say thanks. After 13 minutes of this, they start winding down. I should say it's not always a dude. It can be a couple of ladies, but the entire program seems to be about men getting women off. The stroker, as they're called, are supposed to be fulfilled through pleasure by proxy, as well as by enjoying the sensations in their bodies as they stroke. The idea is basically similar to Buddhist tantric sex, but without the sweet, sweet cash roll it in. So a guy fingers a lady and then that's it. That's the whole thing. Does it for 15 minutes, rubs her clit however she wants it rubbed. Listen to this conversation we're having. And then everyone just goes on their way. That's the O.M.ing. She has... I've read most, from what I read, most women don't come, but it still feels great. It's supposed to be like meditation. They don't come? Not a lot of them do because they're in a fucking room with 60 other people. Still in a place you would think that after if you were doing this enough 15 minutes this you would imagine that this place had gotten off more women than Gloria Allred. And that this would be happening on the reg. Yeah, no, it should be. Yeah. I mean, I'm sure a lot of women do come, but there are a lot of women who can't come in a room full of 60 people. Well, get them out of here because they're not a team player. There's enough women out there who can't come just in a room with a dude who's trying really hard, Gary. Excuse me? You can take a 10 hour, $195 introductory workshop at One Taste. One Taste is really, again... Well, semantics. You can also buy the Nest kit from them. So you can buy all the pillows and the yoga mat. This is before Bed Bath and Beyond existed? You can also buy the lube, the organic proprietary lube. It's all for sale. That's great that they have a little gift shop. Ohemming is designed to let the sensory system rise up, which lets the practitioners gain access of different forms of consciousness. It also lets them take your money. The One Taste Urban Retreat Center had about 50 people living in it by 2007. They called themselves messengers of orgasm. Like a commune, they would cook, eat, do yoga and sleep together. The commune was made up of a few buildings in the same neighborhood. Up to 24 people would stay in one bedroom, two in a bed, 12 beds in a room. But One Taste was not called the commune, because again, commune has negative connotations. So she called it a research community. Almost everything that has negative connotations associated with it has been changed at One Taste. It's as if somebody studied semantics. The messengers of orgasm would pair into what are called research partners. Lab buddies. Boy, that's so fucking funny, though, too, to think if you're getting partnered in that phase because there's probably varying degrees of attractiveness going on. So when they're just sort of like dodgeballing the teams together. Yeah, it's really what it is. It sounds like it's like you... I believe from what I've read, and it's very complicated because there's so many people on both sides of it. And I do think there is something to a woman learning how to fucking be open sexually is negatively looked upon our society. So this does have one aspect of it that's good. Sure. But at the same time, it sounds like you are slightly pressured to... Like you should be open to doing it with whoever. Right. Or else you're closed off. Else you're weird. Which gets into the weird cultish shit. Culti, Scientology. Yeah. So basically, the... Where did it go? Where did it go? Did it stop? Oh, there it is. So it's right. So they're known as a research partner. More than one person has said Nicole would try to push two people together to be research partners. Come on, smush. Yeah. So she's like, you and Jeff would be good together. Go into the smush room. Jeff's like, I came here because women won't talk to me and I like to finger. Like... All right, Jeff. Boy, I'm going to really jam them in and out of you. A research partner can be someone you share a bed with or make out with or have sex with or have any sort of intimacy with. Sure. You can have a research partner for just a week or over a year. A few people are in monogamous relationships, but the majority are not. You're going to be research partners for life. Everyone in the Urban Retreat Center gets together each weekday at 7 a.m. and they do a group clit rub session. Sure. It's just sort of like the morning constitutions. Yeah. It's like the Pledge of Allegiance of your vagina. That's right. Then there's another session at 2 p.m. and then a last one at 6 45. Those are less attentive because people are at the jobs and stuff. Right. Yeah. You got to go to work where you don't tell people about your vagina fight club you live at. It's hard to get over from Google to the place of tear to get you. Sure. Yeah. You have to get back to Google. Well, off to the coal mines. They can sleep in one. They can sleep in on weekends before they start going after the little man on the boat around 7 45 a.m. We'll see you on the morning for the bean flick. After the San Francisco Chronicle wrote about naked non-sexual yoga classes, a lot of horny non-yoga dudes started showing up. So the yoga classes went back to being fully clothed. I'm ready to do downward doggy style. If I was a fucking like kid who I found her third eye, it's in her vagina. If I'm like an 18 year old kid who cannot get laid and I hear about this, I'm down there in a heartbeat. My God. Keep me out of there. No way. If they throw me out, I'm getting a disguise kit. If I have. Hello, I'm Baron Von Twinkle. If I have some shades of Asperger's and I have a hard time being intimate or dealing with people on a level, I'm looking at the you're so right about the guys are like, yeah, I'm here because I'm very curious about the female or chasm. Do you like comic books? At some point being a woman after cash, Nicole started becoming connected with Silicon Valley and in particular a man named Reese Jones. They started an actual relationship. He is a venture capitalist who studied biophysics at UC Berkeley and that success at one point inventing and patenting different things like he patented like a basic sound level recording thing for computers. So he gets tons of money from like that kind of stuff. Right. Either way, he's very rich, very connected and he got into the awesomeness of rubbing ladies quote. It's a procedure to nourish the limbic system like yoga or Pilates with no other strings attached. When you go to a massage therapist, you don't take the masseuse to dinner afterwards. No, he's right, I don't, but I also don't get jerked off by them. Yeah. So I actually I would say comparing yoga or Pilates or a massage to rubbing a lady's clit for 15 minutes is weird. By the way, I do take them to dinner. Oh, right. Always. Nevermind. All right. One hit TGI Fridays. The business boy, my back feels better. Where's the closest Chili's? The business became more successful. Now they had a new building and everyone had their own private room instead of 24 packed into one. And suddenly Nicole started getting attention. First came a pretty flattering piece in the New York Times in 2009. Quote one taste. 2009. One taste is but the latest stop on this sexual underground weaving together strands of radical individual freedom, Eastern spirit, Eastern spirituality and feminism. This was the first time Nicole and her own emming plan really hit the mainstream. Some people found it interesting. There was a lot of ridiculing and some called it cult. Some ex members said it wasn't all it was cracked up to be. One woman said Nicole is the kind of person who quickly understands everything about someone. Two former members said they had left because they wanted to have a heart focused relationship, not a genital focused one. That's the hardest part to stroke. It really is the heart. By the way, I have a workshop about stroking the heart. Oh, I want to come. Interesting you would say that. They said Nicole will declare a message or something and then everyone reflects it in the building, which is little cults. And Nicole responded by saying that there is a potential for something like this to become a cult, but she doesn't like the focus to be the all powerful figure and that she moved out of the house because of it. I wonder if that was also because she could afford her own place. But the name and the word OMing was now getting out there and the more people heard about it, the more people wandered into the one taste urban retreat center on Folsom street to see what it was all about. There you get a hard sales push. There is a shitload of eye contact. Unlike when you were getting finger banged during the morning. There's a lot of genital. By the way, you're not supposed to look the lady in the eye when you're fingering her. Of course not. You got to look at the mirror near her genitals. There are a lot of things in the center people will try to sell you. Right. It's like an Amway for vaginas. Perfect. And the company's profile kept going up and up. There were more magazine articles, newspapers and a nightline feature. Wow. Then in 2011 came the big moment. Since Nicole clearly doesn't like attention, as she told the New York Times, one can only wonder how Nicole ended up giving a Ted talk called orgasm, the cure for hunger in the Western woman. It would be great if the Ted talk was called how to not garner attention. The 50 minute Ted talk was a huge hit. Now celebrities were on board. Deepak Chopra put it on his YouTube channel. There it has been seen millions of times. She said orgasm is like a nutrient and women need it. And that by feeding and taking care of your sexual needs, everything else comes together. It's like a vagina elixir. Sure. But at the end of the day, the goal of one taste is profit. So they are turning orgasms into cash. The urban monk program is for people who want to immerse completely in sensuality and cost $2,000 a week. Wow. The goal is to quote turn on. Right. Remember turning on America? Yeah. In those two words, the company has trademarked really turn on as far as I can tell is everything let go, energize, feel. It really feels like someone took a bucket and dumped every uplifting word into it. And that kind of language works for people looking for something in life. People coming off a breakup, people who feel depressed, people with unfulfilled needs. That's why the language was created. Remember did I tell you Nicole studied semantics? Yes, brought that up once. That's why some people call it a cult. Either way, they're saying quote, when they say turn on, they're saying quote, an awake and alive pussy will aid a woman's physical and mental health. God bless them. People come to the center for tons of reasons. Women can tell. I think I know the main one. Women can come with a partner or in search of one. Same with dudes. Learning to OM takes place in a one day workshop for 190 bucks, a six month master class goes for up to 7500. Dave, we're going for the one day. Yeah. Oh my God. I thought about it, but I'm married. The coaching course. Not there, you're not. The coaching course. Bring Heather. I'll find someone. We'll take care of her. Could you imagine my wife in that room? Holy shit. Just take Finn to the theme park with a babysitter for the day. You, me and the couple of missus's will just go down there and. Number one, my wife is a psychologist, so she would be like therapy. You should be in therapy, not this. That's not helping these women come, darling. The coaching course costs $15,000. Yeah. There's a yearly membership fee of 49. Sure. A weekend conference for anywhere from 200 to 400. They will also certify your business as OM based. So if you want to do that for your yoga studio or a coffee shop or even a bank or legal office. Legal office. What? OK, so. Yeah. So I assume that means. Look, this is also a conflict resolution kind of thing. Right. OMing. They want it to be everything. Are they settling lawsuits with finger baiting? I don't know. It's like if you want to be kosher, if you want to have a kosher store. I want to take a 15 minute recess. Miss, can I see any other room? I want to talk to the judge for a minute. Judge, I think this. I think this would be better if I could rub your clit. Sustained. OK, great. Get under the robe. They emphasize that they are in no way. Use the gavel. They are in no way spiritual. Right. Quote, we are not that we trust you can handle your emotions, your experiences, the world. But people come looking for something and one taste is offering answers. The company says it can help with health benefits like increased energy, libido and reduced stress and irritability. There are clearly dudes who don't have any idea how to be around women and have rarely had sex. They hear about a room full of women laying around with their pants off that they can stroke for 50 minutes and they're in. The women aren't forced to do anything. Anyone can leave whenever they want. And in a lot of articles I read and there are a lot of articles of women have gone and written articles. Many women do leave thinking it's bullshit or because they don't want a stranger to put a glove on and rub their clit. Well then get in a relationship with them. But many are told it's the answer to everything. Now if you were in a weird place in your life and you desperately want answers you might sit there and think, oh, maybe I can try this, especially when it's implied you're prudish or rigid. Then you're coming on a floor around a bunch of people, other people are coming on a floor and you're thinking, well, this is kind of awesome. I mean, we're all coming. Get the Swiffer. At one taste they call the buildup of sexual energy that needs to be released tumescence. If you let tumescence build up, it will release itself in ways like becoming overly frustrated by someone loudly chewing their gum or losing your shit when someone else is late. It's the same thing if you have fetens. Well, we all know how to get rid of those. But it's the exact same thing. Right. It's the result of the bad. Right. Right. So their bad is the buildup of sexual energy. Right. Scientology makes you clean a boat for nine years and sign a billion year contract. And then this one just says get fingered. This is a lot better. Way better. They have a mantra, tumescence, where the problem is never what it seems and the solution is always orgasm. Well, there you go. And they use it for that. If two workers at one taste are having an issue, they might OM it out. All right, guys, enough fighting. Finger her. They actually would tell two arguing employees to go OM it out. Wow. I bet it works. I bet it does. It is literally the answer for everything. And the deeper you get into it, the deeper you want to go and pay higher costs for the classes. So does Scientology. It is now a top 5000 company in the United States. Wow. They have centers in San Francisco, New York, Los Angeles and London. They have over 15 cities worldwide listed on their website. Dave, let's go. They offer many classes. One for example is called 10 Women Want You to Know How to Handle a Woman's Pussy. They don't say vagina. They say pussy and they say cock because those words are more full of energy. Yeah, they are. And Nicole still has the smallest Wikipedia page of any human I've ever seen of her influence. But she has quartered the market on people who want women looking to learn to be more open, men wanting to feel more emotions, couples wanting more from their sex lives, losers who want to see what a vagina looks like. And even a guy who said he saw an advertisement for a class on quote, how to handle a woman's pussy and decided to come. I'm in. Well, that's something I would like to do. Great. I would very much like to know how to handle a woman's pussy. Hello, is this the Pussy Institute? Whatever it takes to get them in the door, like a car dealership. Many women have gone to a class and written about it. And those descriptions often include seeing many individual men who you don't want anywhere near your pussy. And those men are eager to ask you if you want your pussy rubbed often within the first minute of meeting. But the women... Where are you from? I am from Sausalito. Can I finger your pussy? What's your job? Take your panties off. Let me get the glove on. Hey, I've already lubed up with the glove. Hey, I've got my lube glove. Hey, do you have a nest? Because I brought my own nest. Oh, you're vegan? Can I rub your pussy? Seriously? There's also a slow growing movement within one taste to stop using the noticing. That's when he describes the vagina. That's the part. Oh, they want to get rid of that? No, there's a movement growing within one taste against it because it makes everyone so uncomfortable. Yeah. The women are like, I want to hear about my pussy. And the guy's like, I don't really want to talk about your pussy for two minutes. I'm kind of running out of stuff to say. I mean, how much can I say about a pussy? It's still there. It's red again. It's red. Apparently, it's super uncomfortable for everyone. The Deepak Chopra OM video has now been seen at 2,378,000 times. Nicole's Ted Talk has been seen over a million times. Meetups take place now in 43 cities in 10 countries. The company had a revenue of 6.5 million in 2004 and it continues to grow. But either way, right now, as we do this podcast, some guy somewhere is sitting beside a woman with a glove on and he just said, I'm going to touch your pussy now. And because of that, Nicole's putting more money in the bank. Whoa. Good golly. Oh my. We got to go. Come on. There's one in LA. You could go because you're fucking single. Go, dude. All right. I'm not in a polyamorous relationship. Me and my wife are monogamous. All right. Let me talk to her. I don't want you. You, me and Heather. Let's go down to this institute and look at some pussies. How awkward it would be from here on out if you love my wife's clit for 15 minutes. Oh my God. I didn't even think you were going to put that spin on it. I thought it was going to be me watching you be like, you know, Dave, you've been pretty passive aggressive ever since I put that glove on. It's a really weird thing to wrap your brain around. Right. So it's almost like someone has looked at the crude. It's almost like a, it's like a business, someone with a very smart business mind looked at Colts and went, I can do this in a business way. I can apply the, the weird pressure, the weird, the weird way you draw people into Colts, the weird answers that you get from Colts and plugged into a business that's about the human body. You're like marketing orgasms to people, but it also ties into feminism and women taking control of their body. It is. It is genius. It is genius. There are so many levels where you go, okay, it's a cold, it's bad, but then it's, I bet it's fucking helping a ton of women. And if you just, but to me, I always come back to if you just read a book, cause she has a book out called slow sex. If you just read that book and learn how to do that with your partner, or even if you want to do it with a bunch of different dudes, that's fine. But it's the city, a lot of 60 other people. That's weird. It's also the, um, cause it is true. I, like, I think that about a lot of things that you, you know, there's just a lot of stuff that is taboo that if we were to break through, we, a lot of good would come from it. So there is no, there really is no, it is a good thing to teach, to liberate women sexually and like teach fucking weirdos how to be with them. But I also think that you could, that should, you could do that in a relationship. Yeah. You could do that with some, you should do that with somebody. Like the idea that you have no, that there's no communication as far as like what is going on and what the person likes is really, that's almost weirder. Right. To me, it's, to me, it's, well, that's where you get into the cult thing because it, it, that falls under the grooming thing of when you, because there are clear alone, there was one woman, I said, I went, there's Yelp reviews. And if you want to share the Yelp, people fucking write up Yelp reviews and there are people saying it's awesome. And there's one woman who was like, I found out I had been sexually molested because I went in and a stranger started rubbing me and I went, Oh my God, I was, I was molested by a family member when I was a kid and she went into deep depression. And then she went back to talk to someone about it. And that person said, well, let's, oh, I'm away out of it. And then made it 10 times worse. So there's that level of it, which is you're talking about people who have no experience with psychology doing shit that is super psychology related and doing tons of damage. And on a side note, how weird is it when you're the guy who has like been fingering her and she has, you're like, should I stop? She's talking about her uncle a lot. Yeah. Well, what's going on? She's like, Oh my God, what a breakthrough. Should I take the glove off? Can I get a prof over here? And then anywhere you go and read about a story, if you go down, cause I must've read at 30, if you go down to the comments, really aroused. Oh, so hard. If you go down to the comments, there's always the first one that says, Oh my God, this is so fucking ridiculous. Just learn how to do it with a partner. And the next comment is people who've done it calling that person approved. Maybe there's something to it. I'll tell you, I'll let you know when I head down. They have an LA all the time. One taste get togethers is 10 bucks. Your first, you go to a get together for 10 bucks. I think that's just how much to finger. I think that's the one 99 10 hour thing. Let's get a Kickstarter up and, um, but if you go to a one taste meetup for 10 bucks, there will be tons of people there. Like if you go, there's tons of women who went to one taste meetups, the $10 one. And then there are dudes who would, you know, she'd be like, Hey, I'm Linda and I'm here from the Barry. Can I finger you? Exactly. That's exactly what happens. One woman said that within every single guy she met within under a minute, he asked if he could rubber clit. I mean, you want to, you want to, and it also it's designed language. So you're not, yeah, you're not being like, let me finger you. It's like saying, Hey, you want to meditate together, but it's not cause you're rubbing her clit. Do you want to meditate later? And it also puts men in this weird position where it's just, it's just feeding in all this cultural. It's very, it's very, it's almost like manipulative and rapey in a weird way. Like if you're a guy, it's very, it's very strange and it's gotta be very, it's rapey-ish. But if you're going to do it with women that you have no idea who they are. Yeah. It's super rape from a guy's perspective. It's rapey-ish. And I know, and I know that this whole thing is built on giving women power and stuff, but when there's, when there's Larry off the docks coming in, cause he wants to fucking see a bunch of vaginas, it's rapey-ish. Can I wear my crabbing gloves? We actually sell crabbing gloves. Oh perf. Hey, I'm elbow deep. This chick's buzzing. You're not supposed to be elbow deep. I can't get it out. I'm lodged. Someone jump out of tummy and release me. Are you Andrew Dice Clay? Get King Arthur over here. Remove Excalibur. Oh. I guarantee you we have listeners who have done this and they'll say it's great. And then we'll get it. I'll let you know if it's great when I fucking go to the thing. Is that guarantee you, I guarantee you have people that'll say it's great. And then I will get a private email from someone that says, Oh my God, this fucking ruined me. So that's what this is. Like we'd love to hear from the psychological damage you can always do to someone who is not prepared for what is coming. Right. Literally is what's like if you don't have a professional psychologist on hand while people are getting fingered in a room full of 60 people, you're being extremely out of line for sure. There you are there in that situation. They're absolutely you need to have like this very, that needs to be very sensitive. You can't just feel the guilt of the moment and continue with this because there's people around who are liking it. Yeah. I mean, the thing, the thing about your fucking sexual organs is they're fucking tied to a lot of shit. Yeah. Especially people who have been fucked, fucked with his kids. So you can't just go and lay down on a floor and get finger banged. You know, it's just FB please. Don't be disgusting. Well my group, my group is called finger blasting. Hey, we're the blasters. It's just for dudes, it's mostly for dudes to FB and you shoot your load on the chest and the lady never comes. Your finger blaster, you use that lubricant to get yourself off. It's called manpower baby. That would be the best if there was a guy who just like chewed the glove and started jerking off at the lube and they're like, sir, sir, sorry, he's a mental patient. Get out of here. Oh, you, there's no way that they haven't had tons of problems with dudes getting fucking hard on. No way. And wanting to do shit. Oh God. I'm ashamed for getting a heart. The fucking, the fucking predator, the way this is set up, it is set up for predatorial monsters to come in and do shit. It's it doesn't fucking matter when sex is involved. Shit gets weird. Well, one touch is not weird. I get that's what they're trying to do. But the way, just look at all the fucking misogynists and fucking creeps online. I now think 25 to 30% of dudes are completely fucked up out of their minds. More, more, higher, completely. And that's why the fucking Taliban exists, because, oh, dudes are fucking creeped out sexually. They can't fucking handle shit. They want to get fucking laid. They're angry. And this shit makes it. It's not, it's not good. No, it is weird. But send me the link. I could say you could seriously, you could talk about this for hours. I'm fucking crazy. Go back and forth. There's gonna be tons of women that sent us things that say it helped them out. So what are you gonna do? I am ready. That was an hour 25. I'm ready. I'm gonna fucking finger blast you century. We're fingering cars.