 Hello, you're listening to the dollop. This is a bi-weekly American history podcast. Each week, I read a story from American history to my friend, Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. Nailed it. Whew. Man, we're good. That was close. Particularly me. I just really stumbled on podcast. A bit of a train wreck on podcast, honestly. I liked it. God, you want to look good, dude? I'll do one bump. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. They've okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made-Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Pray, Gary. No. I say done, my friend. No. No. August 31st, 1851. Sorry. You said something. I just, it's fine. Okay. Robert Emmett Odlam was born in Ogdensburg, New York. He was named after Irish nationalist Robert Emmett, a rebel leader who led a rebellion against the British, got captured and executed for treason. That'll show him. And then name your boy after that guy. That'll teach him. And name him our boy after that dead guy. Yep. Robert had six siblings, two of them died during childhood. God, it must have just been so weird for most of, like, you know, half of your siblings to just die. That's how it was. You probably, I mean, imagine looking at pictures when you're 10, like, oh, remember Grace and Charles? They were fun toddlers. They should have named kids until they were 12. Yeah. That's what I would have done. I'd be like, one, two, three, hey, it's your 12th birthday. You're going to be named Larry. This year my parents gave me the name Larry for my birthday because I made it to 12 without polio. St. Lawrence, St. Lawrence County native. Robert learned to swim in the St. Lawrence River at a very young age and he was a very, very good swimmer. But then his father died in the mid 1850s. So the family moved. They moved around looking for places to settle. First they went to New Orleans, then New York City, then Boston, then Detroit, then Cleveland, and then Montreal. Then on to St. Louis where they stayed for a little bit. And then they went to Cuba and then back to New Orleans. Cuba's a weird call. Cuba's a really weird call. That's the weird one. But all of those places are weird at this time because there's no fucking cars or planes. Yeah, they must have just taken forever. Oh my God. With all the alive kids and then you're probably dragging the dead kids behind you. Yeah. I don't know about you. I mean, you're really putting a lot more in peril. It's a total nightmare. Maybe they were just trying to kill kids. I hope so. And then they ended up back in New Orleans where they arrived on the same day the state of Louisiana ratified the Confederate Constitution. Finally. So shit's on. Finally. So shit's on. Good call. Robert's older brother had joined the Union Army. That's the good one. Well, jury's still out. So the family went in search of his older brother, David. To congratulate him? I don't know why. I don't know. They've already been all over the fucking world. They're not going to find the guy. You can't find anybody in that time, and especially when they're in an army, they're always fucking moving around. Imagine finding someone. In that time, when someone left. Imagine finding someone. Impossible. Not then. If they're gone, they're gone. I mean, especially in the middle of a fucking war. You mean, hey, have you seen Bob? You have to go everywhere and put up signs. It's crazy. So they went to- Missing son. They went to Illinois and Kentucky and then ended up just moving to Memphis, Tennessee. They would never see David again. Okay. I told them that's what would happen. You warned them. David served under- this is the best part. He served in the army under an alias. So he picked a different name when he joined the army. That made it harder. Complicates matters. And he vanished after the battle of Shiloh. They did not know if he had died, been captured, or deserted. So we never get closure on our David. No one knows anything. David's a mystery. It's one of the great mysteries of America. What happened to David? I like to think he opened up a little B&B. Right? Yeah. Yeah, right on the river. Retired. Fuck yeah. Sort of lived like Johnny Cakes and the Sopranos. There it is. Log cabin. You got fucking- You got great ideas. Boyfriend. On April 4th, 1864, the family's Memphis home was destroyed by Union forces to make a firing path for artillery. Now that's a total disregard of someone's house. Well, and also that's why you got to check your insurance policies to see if you're covered for fire linings. But that's when they could have, while they're tearing down your house, you could have gone, what about to the left? Could you guys maybe just- No, there's a big space over there. Use our living room. Use our driveway. Use our living room. So they moved to Mobile, Alabama. They got deeper in it. They were like, let's go farther down. Let's find crazier areas. Robert left and he left the family and got a job as a tea merchant in Philadelphia in 1870. Sure. So he's like, at this point, he's like, I'm super into tea. The tea is my thing. And I'm going to just dedicate my life to it. And then he moved to St. Louis and then he moved to Chicago. And then in 1878, he moved to Washington, DC. Well, can I ask, were they compulsive movers? There's an issue- Are they sharks? That I couldn't figure out- If they stop moving, do they die? They would not stop moving. It must have just been insane. You'd get unpacked and they'd be like, we're going to Cuba. Wouldn't that be great if this dollop ended up being about a moving company? That would be great. But it's not. Okay. Union movers. So in Washington, DC, that's where he opened up a swimming school. I was going to actually guess that. Robert was very interested in teaching not just swimming, but safety, water safety. Now that feels like a part of swimming in a way, but okay. And to bring attention to his cause, he started doing stunts. Oh, well, here we go. What do you mean? Here we go. He'd hold his breath underwater- Here we go. For minutes at a time. Oh boy. He would challenge anyone to swim races. Okay. Anyone. He had like a standing bet for like 500 bucks or whatever. Anybody he'll take on anybody, but no one would take him on because he's the fastest fucking guy. Right. And then there were the jumps. Would you like to jump from bridges? No here we go. Or are we already there? We're already started. We're already there. And obviously we're developing. He used the jumps- Just jumping off of bridges? Well, he used the jumps to spotlight two main safety issues. First he thought everyone should know how to swim and that people who were in... And also that people who were in high rises when fires broke out should be able to jump to the safety of nets of firemen. So those are the two points he was trying to make by jumping off of bridges. That you should know how to swim. And secondly, you shouldn't be afraid to jump out of a building into a fireman's net. I'm not sure if either one need the bridge. Okay, well we'll get there. Couldn't you just put... I mean, were other... Was he training people to jump off the bridge? Hold on now. Oh God. I mean, we're about to hear about a lemming squad. The fire problem was a legitimate problem. Fires were common and Americans were building taller and taller buildings and it was very hard for the firemen to get up there and save people because ladders only went so far. Right. This is before they knew about building bigger ladders. Right. So, right. They were like, well the ladders only go so far. That's right. He's actually right. Look, it does stop. You're the one building buildings taller than the ladders. All right. That's why people are dying. Shorter buildings, more of them. So if you jumped high up... So if you were trapped high up in a building, right, your only option is to jump. There's no ladder option. Right. Now, this led to other issues. First, people were scared to jump out of a building. Why? Because it's a building. Oh. And second, people at that time thought that if you jumped from a building and were plummeting down, you would die because you wouldn't be able to breathe. Right. Because you... Commonly held thought. Because the air is underwater. It's a commonly held belief that because... Had anyone ever jumped? Because you're... because you're moving so fast now that you've jumped that you're going past the air. So literally nobody could be like, no, I was breathing. Look, it's a... if you're trained to think based on cartoons... Oh, right. I forgot. Two things can happen. You can't breathe when you're falling. And secondly, you can step out of a house that's been shot out of a cannon. Sure. Sure. Okay. You can't breathe when you're falling through the air. Okay. Makes total sense. They actually thought falling would stop breathing. The theory had not yet been tested. Oh, that may... I understand. Which was obviously a problem because to test it you might die. So you can see the Catch-22. Sure. So you really had to be... you really had some strong beliefs that... But he's jumping off bridges. So here we get ready. Robert was the man. He started jumping from higher and higher places. In 1880, he jumped from 100 feet up into the Potomac and was not injured. But did he breathe? Well, so far he's fucking... he's fucking shattering people's minds. Yeah. And he kept at it, gaining fame and jumping from higher distances, hitting the water feet first and never getting injured. So he's the fucking man. He's fucking blowing everyone's minds. He's like, look, this shit's real. This jumping and breathing shit is real. I'm breathing. I'm swimming. I'm swimming. I'm breathing. I'm jumping. Then I'm breathing again. His swimming school became more and more popular and he became known as Professor Odlum. Sure. In the census, he listed himself as the professor of swimming. They're like, well, there's one of you. That's our official count. There's one swimming professor. The professor of swimming. His jumping and swimming school attracted the city's elite and the fancy people. I love the fancy people. But of course it did. He taught the kids of presidents and senators and higher up military men. Come on, bring the kids down. I'll teach them about the government and throw them off a bridge. The first lady, Mrs. Garfield, came in 1881. He added a gymnasium to the swim school. And even though the swim school was very successful, Robert kept jumping and doing stunts. I feel like that's maybe something you hang up. Yeah, I think you wrap it up. I think you're now you've got to. You're the athlete who's opened a car dealership. You've got a successful swim school. You're good. You're good. You don't need to keep playing football, Johnny. Yeah. You're good. You're good. You're good. You got out in 1881. He quote, challenged any man in the United States to swim him for anywhere from 250 to 500 a side. No one took the bet. That same year, he held his breath underwater for three minutes and 10 seconds. And of course, everyone thought that was amazing. Yeah, that is amazing. In 1882, Robert jumped from 110 feet up on a ladder that was placed on the deck of a steamer. He splashed into the water unharmed, even though he went in at an angle. Okay. All right. Eventually, people moved on. You know, his time. That's so great that people are eventually like, well, he's jumped off of all the things we can see. Let's move on. He held his breath a number of times. He's jumped in blabity. We now know you can jump and breathe. I assume other people open up swim schools because the swim school fell on hard times. He closed it. That's it. End of the swim school. The professor of swimming put him under. Well, everyone knew. And the president of swimming. He then got a job. And governor swims. He then got a job as a professor of swimming at the Hygiea Hotel in Hampton, Virginia. Now this. It's getting a little sad. Beforehand was known as a lifeguard. Yeah. But he made sure the title was professor of swimming. Yeah. So he's hanging on to some shit. That's going to be great, though, when they're like, we have to make a professor of swimming is on duty. Sorry. What we need we have we've we no longer we fired the lifeguard. Right. And now we don't have a lifeguard. So we just we have a professor of swimming. So we're going to need a sign that says professor. I'm sorry. I'm not on duty. I'm not understanding. So there's. So we found a guy who jumps off of bridges. OK. And he's the professor of swimming. Well, that doesn't sound like and now he's going to sit in that elevated chair. Did he go to Harvard? He jumps into swimming is swimming. Something you can get a doctorate in. No, but don't ask him any of these questions when you see him. OK, just make a fucking sign. Why don't we hire somebody else? Because what about a lifeguard that matches the sign there? Bert's kid down the street. He can do it. He said, I want to be the next lifeguard. He is as much as a lifeguard and he is a professor again. Just make a sign. Professor of swimming is on duty. Professor of swimming must be on guard at all times. OK, but look, you're you're talking to me like I'm not the professor of signage. Right. Sorry. A professor of signage. Yes. So I'm a little more and I'm the professor of managing this hotel. And that's the sign we need you to make. Also, will you talk to the professors of towels and see if they could turn over some of the rooms? You got you. I can tell some of the professors of sleeping here are running out of their towels. There Robert really showed off his swimming skills by swimming an 18 mile trip from Old Point Comfort to Ocean View and back. How long? 18 miles. Fucking and the fucking water. So he's not kidding around. He's you know, he's fucking serious. He has a PhD in. He does not have a PhD. He's a good swimmer. He has a PhD in the water. He also saved the life of a 16 year old kid at the hotel who happened to be the son of former VP Schuller Colfax. Oh, I really loved the Colfax administration. Right. Very good. Well, yeah. And then and then right after that, Robert got in a moment malaria on May 24th, 1883, the Brooklyn Bridge opened. Finally, it was a suspension bridge that stood over 200 feet above the water. That's pretty high. Oh, God. And he was very impressed with the new bridge, as was Robert. Oh, God. In 1885, for different reasons, word got out that Robert was going to try to jump off the bridge at an area that would be 130 feet above the water. His previous high jump was 110 feet. He wouldn't be the first to want to. Ronald Donaldson, whose parents were assholes. Ronald Donaldson had tried while the bridge was being built in 1882 to jump off of it. He tried it three times. Once he was stopped by the wind. Okay. I mean, he wasn't stopped by the wind. You can push it out because of wind. But maybe he went up there and he tried to jump in the wind, get blown him. That would be so great if he jumped and was just suspended and just like blew back up onto the bridge three times. It's just too windy. The wind won't have me today. I'll do it again. You guys see this. I'm back. Sorry. The other two times, the construction workers stopped him. Right. Next, he went to New York and there he was interviewed by the New York Herald. Quote, if I should die, I don't want the public to think that I had no good object in view. I want the Herald to explain that I have for years illustrated the fact that men do not die while falling through the air. Oh my God. And that no matter if men or women were 100 feet high on the roof of a burning building, they would not hesitate to jump into a net if they read that I had jumped 140 feet from the Brooklyn Bridge. I'm saving lives. He's already proven that you're saving lives. I think I think that run might come to an end soon. I'm just picturing five people standing on the burning building. That's about 150 feet high. And one guy is saying, don't jump. You'll die. Well, the truth is, though, they burn it. The truth is, though, if it's windy, there's no point in jumping. You'll just blow right back into the burning fire. That is true. That which is very tough. So this is clearly for science. Yes. Also, he didn't have a lot of money and was hoping the fame would help him financially. But the New York City authorities got wind of his plan, mostly because he did an interview for the New York Herald and were set not to allow him to pull off his feet. On the morning of May 19th, 1885, Robert went to confession at the Church of the Redemptionist Fathers. Then he got together with a few buddies. They included boxer Patty Ryan, wrestler William Muldoon and actor Henry Dixie. That's quite a table. He's got a fucking he's like he's like a young Leo. Yeah, this is like the Brat Pack. Robert then sent two of his friends, James Haggart and a Mr. Cluss up to the bridge to scope it out. So they drinking? No I don't think I didn't see any indications they were drinking because if you're drunk and you go through there, you can't breathe. That is true. Beneath the bridge, a tugboat full of people hung out 100 yards away from the bridge and on board they had a rescue swimmer to help them out in case there was a problem. There were thousands of spectators in the area and a lot of cops. Every horse drawn carriage that came to cross the bridge was accompanied by a cop on foot. So here I didn't I don't really understand. So if you're looking for a guy, you know what the guy looks like would stop the carriage and question the people in the carriage. No, it's what they did was they just walked along the side of it. Yeah, see that'll stop police work. Yeah, that's good. It's not just the act of being at the criminal emerge to you. Thank you. Don't find him. After two hours, the cops thought they had Robert. They stopped a suspect and questioned him. The man said he wanted to jump and didn't think it was anyone's business to stop him. A few other officers then surrounded the carriage as it slowly moved forward. They were not going to let this man out of the carriage. They thought they had the situation under control. Problem was that guy in the carriage was a decoy. I knew it. That was James Haggard. That fucker. Two yards back, Robert was riding in a wagon which slowly made its way across the bridge. When it got to the desired location, Robert hopped out dressed in a bright red swimsuit. Well, that's good, though. Keep the people. Yeah, they assume all it's amazing that his plan worked so well. Yeah, like a guy in a carriage that I'm going to jump. You can't stop me. And then the cops kept moving forward and again, all the cops and we've got this guy says he's going to jump. And then they all clamored around that. And then a guy in a big red bathing suit jumps out. See, I just don't think the guy who wants to jump off the bridge is going to tell you. That's what I thought. Yeah. But it was a very honest time. Yeah. So this was the first lie to the guy in the bright red. I love that he's wearing a bright red swimsuit. Gorgeous. I'm picturing what Rodney Dangerfield wore at the end of back to school. Yes. He walked over to the railing, climbed up and got himself into the proper jumping position. The cops suddenly realized they'd stopped the wrong guy and started rushing over to Robert. The crowd went completely silent. Robert Emmett Ullam raised a hand high above his head, which he would use as a rudder to steer himself into the proper position as he hit the water. So he's going to use his hand. He held up his hand like a shark fin. He's going to use his hand like a rudder to keep himself from tilting or going in a weird way. He jumped feet first. He's jumping feet first. Right. So his arm up helps him to steer his body. All right. Right. Right. OK. And it's a good normal look, too. It's a normal look. And then he jumped. It took him three seconds to hit the water. Oh, God. The first hundred feet of the jump went great. Dave, that's... And the next hundred went greater. No. That's not right. Oh, no. It's easy for the first hundred to go great. That's the last one that counts. Then he started to slant a little bit. Wait. I thought he was ruddering with his hand, though. He wasn't ruddering right. It could have been the wind or he may not have been able to jump the way he wanted because of the rushing police. Either way, slanting is bad. He tried to correct it with his hand up, but it was too late. He did not hit the water first feet. He landed on his right side in his hip area. Water splashed 20 feet high, which is not a good sign. He went underwater. And when he came up, he was floating face down, which is the... Which is the signal that you're okay to the emergency crew. That's the signal. That's the international signal for him. He's fine. He's face down floating. He's face down. He's good, you guys. He's good. He's great. The wind did it. The guy jumped off the tugboat and swam as quickly as possible to Robert. When he reached him, he put his shoulder under Robert's head and lifted it out of the water. Thousands watched while they pulled Robert's limp body out of the river. They brought him to the tugboat's galley where they started resuscitation. He stayed unconscious for a long time. Then he started to stir. He opened his eyes and asked, is it all over? Did I make a good jump? So when he hit the water, he became a five-year-old? I wish that they had told him the truth that it was shit, that it was a shit jump and a shit landing, but they didn't. They all told him it was great. Great, really terrific. You nailed it. Feet first. Boy, were you runnering with that hand. Oh, man. You're like a boat up there. Robert then tried to sit up, which turns out was a very bad idea. Blood came out of his mouth, which is not supposed to do if you know anything about the human body. Then he asked, am I spitting blood as more blood poured out of his mouth? Really good jump, Robert. I really nailed the jump. Just can't say enough about it. His friend Robertson told him it was not blood. It was just brandy. Yeah, you hit the water so hard, you got a bottle of booze in your belly. It's right here in this book called Science. You popped your brandy sack. Yeah. You know what they say? That happens. You get hit hard enough, you become booze. You're like a bourbon tap. Hey, boys, get some mugs. Get some glasses. Let's celebrate the perfect jump with a glass of the brandy from his body. He's doing it. Drink the fucking blood. Here we go, a toast. A toast to our best friend and hero. Look at him go. Cheers. Oh, God. Terrible blood. That's so good. The boat made its way to shore. It was a total of 35 minutes after the jump. Oh, so not a lot of time for him to sit there just puking blood. When he was taking off the boat on shore. It took another 20 minutes for an ambulance to get there. Well, sure. An hour. An hour. They probably weren't ruddering, right? By the time the ambulance arrived, Robert Emmett Odom was dead. Time of death 618. From the jump, right? Yeah. OK. It's hard. It could have been a lot of people thought it was the flu. I thought it was old age, maybe. Or brandy. Yeah, it was brandying. Time of death 618 p.m. The undertaker's wagon took him to the corner. His spleen, liver and kidneys had ruptured from the impact. He had three broken ribs and many severe bruises. He also had tuberculosis, but probably not from the jump. He hit it so hard that he got TB. Yeah, he went so hard in the water he got TB. His death was listed as due to concussion. So his brain was fucking rattled as well. Imagine what his... It was a multiple rattle. If they said you died from concussion, imagine what his fucking noggin looked like. If only the Will Smith doctor was around back then. Thank you. His sister Charlotte came to collect his body four days later on May 28th. She had a discussion with the coroner about why his heart and liver were missing. The coroner denied he had anything to do with it. That's not my... I don't. Why would I be? Who's bio you sitting in his body? I'm just the coroner. I just did the thing. I'll be honest. I think they fell out in the water. They did. Parts... He hit it so hard. Parts of him popped out. He hit the water so hard that his liver and kidney fell out of his body. Thank you. So... Anyway, you're a woman. Go away. Also, do you want to buy a kidney? People then look for someone to blame for his death. Yep. Who's our scapegoat? Mrs. Garfield, that cunt. Robert's mother blamed his friend, Paul Boyton, who had captained the ship, the tugboat ship, and been the rescue diver. He wrote her a letter denying responsibility had it published in the New York Times. She then went to see Paul Boyton in New York, but was met instead by a lawyer and a judge who told her she should avoid slandering Boyton. Robert's mother then claimed Boyton had letters that he had destroyed in which he pushed Robert to come and make the jump. She eventually wrote a biography about Robert titled, The Life and Adventures of Professor Robert Emmett Odlam Containing an Account of His Splendid Natatorium in the National Capital. So the whole front was just words. They didn't know how to... Well, the front of the book is a chapter of the book. They didn't know how to make titles. It's a really kind of catchy title. It's one of the worst things about this time period is the extensive titles of books. I mean, I guess you had time to sit around and look at the books and titles. Yeah, there was like 90 books. Yeah, it's not like you were... Back then, you fucking hung around your town. You often didn't go anywhere. So there were like two stores and a donkey. Like that's... His cops as friends, fingers pointed everywhere, except of course at the guy who had leapt to his death. Everyone said he was brave, kind, caring man and that his jump was for science or whatever. Now people knew that if you jumped from a high bridge, you wouldn't die from falling through the air, but instead when you hit the bottom. But doesn't... Isn't that... In this time, think about how crazy everybody is. There has to be people who are like, I told you, you can't breathe. Yes, of course there were. I mean, even if he was like popping up blood, you could easily blame that on not breathing on the way down. Of course. Of course there were those people. There were fucking tons of them. See? So you can't breathe when going through the air. He is the first man who jumped from the Brooklyn Bridge, but he's not the first man who jumped and lived. That guy happened later. There was a guy next who said he did it, but it is apparently a lie. But that's a stunt in its own... Another guy actually did it. That's a risky move anyway. What? Saying you did it? No, totally. That's a dangerous stunt. I agree. Anyway, that's the story of Professor Robert Emmett Odom. Well, swimmer. The professor of the water. Swimmer. Pretty bold move. Right? Yeah. So, anyway. You can please, if you enjoy our podcast, please leave a review on iTunes that helps us out. Also, we're on Twitter at the Dallup. We're on Instagram, Dallup podcast. We are on Facebook. If you are listening and you're like, I didn't hear about the show that was in Blankety Blank, you should be checking out the Facebook and Twitter pages. Yeah. We're at the miscellaneous at the Blankety Blank. A lot of people are way behind in podcasts and then they miss the dates. Well, sorry. Yeah. Someone's probably listening to this and we're probably dead. And what else? In the future. If you, we love our Patreon subscribers. You guys are awesome. If you want to donate to Patreon to keep this podcast chugging along, we do appreciate it. It takes a lot of our time. We love you guys. We love you. We want to make love to you. No, we are going to make love to you. We are going to make love to you as a group. Both of us. The salmon, the salmon are swimming. They're looking good. It's spotting time. We're signing cars. Ready?