 Oh, hey. Keep doing it. Keep doing. Oh, hey. Your Austin Powers impression forever. You're listening to the Dollif. This is a bi-weekly American History podcast each week. I read a story to my friend. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. God, you want to look at it? I'll do one. I'll do one. I'll do one. God, you want to look at it? I'll do one. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. They've okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become the tickling plot, guys. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I said done, my friend. No. No. Pull it together. No. Sit and hear it question. It was the first time any one would do Dick don't get off the court. Don't look at me indignantly. Yeah, you were just fucking with the court All right, Dave. Don't yell at him. I don't know there's no March 15th 1839 all right Edward Weston was born in Providence, Rhode Island When he was 10 his father left his wife and four kids and went to California in the Gold Rush Yeah, that's fucking Gold Rush messed up a lot of families, honey. I'll be back. All right, honey. I'm off Gonna go to work on the other side of the country I'll be back in a couple years gonna go dig up some dirt Yep, dad's gonna dig in dirt for a while look for sparkly things Now at this time there was a popular singing group called the Hutchinson family singers. Okay, you have their albums At that time they were four brothers and they were the hot group in America. So they're basically the Backstreet Boys and the 1830s Backstreet Boys The backyard lads Look at he's looking at the window it like you know If you have a cat that you keep indoors the whole thing is you basically just have to try to pretend that there's nothing Out there. Yeah, but his constant quest is like what is it? Hey, hey Hey, Jose daddy's coming down I'm gonna have to shut him out again So the Hutchinson family singers was sing songs about abolitionism workers, right temperance and women's rights Yeah, girl. I want to give you the right to vote who's not gonna be drinking girl I want you to be able to wear whatever you want public girl and go to the same bars and saloons as all the other people Girl, that's the kind of love I'm about to bring to you. You know, we're talking about not working on weekend That's right girl Anyone who thinks that you shouldn't be allowed to work is like class on Sunday No school wait, I fucked that up We don't think 12 year old should be working in a coal mine Also, if you're 13 years old, you shouldn't marry a 35 year old man girl And hit it In the winter of 1849 the Hutchinson family singers came to Providence and Weston at 10 years old Pushed his mom to let him hit the road with the band It's time I mean the 1800s It's time mom Edward's mom was not in good health So she decided the Hutchinson family singers would be great at taking care of her boy And off he went the cat just turned on the air conditioner The cat just turned on the air conditioner Jose Jose that's amazing Alright I'm gonna shut him out He just turned on the air conditioner That's fucking amazing It's hot so it's cool He's like I know I did a bad thing Oh in the chair Whole chair Jose Woo Alright so she says that's cool you can go off with this band 10 year old That makes sense Well it happened to Michael Jackson a lot too So for an entire year young Edward toured with the group What is a 10 year old touring like? He sold candy and song books at their shows He this cannot end well Ah then after a year He's not the almost famous kid Then after a year of touring He went and lived with Jesse Hutchinson who quit the group to write songs and manage them Okay Well he was 11 at this point it's time to move on What's not weird about this? Time to climb that social career Ah yes hello gentlemen this is a young boy I picked up in Rhode Island Yeah hello That's Hi Jesse that's a little weird See the thing is like I think if you think about the band and the group and what the band needs That's where I come in I get them what they need I know but why are you And they need coke Why? They need cocaine Okay fair Look fuck you I'm 11 bitch Hey What? The language Fuck you I don't give a shit You know what you're out of the band No come on listen I am the band I am the band Wow I don't like this kid at all Get out of the green room if you don't like it Haven't you ever seen an 11 year old fucking grown woman No I don't know what's happening right now What? The 1850s are fucked up if this is what's going on I shoot heroin between my toes Jesus Christ Things are bad This isn't the story at all I'm 11 now I've seen it all I've done it all In 1852 his dad returned home Hey what the fuck happened No it was not great And he recalled Edwards from Jesse Hutchinson And then Edward went to school While home he got a job as a newsboy But his father made him quit and got him a job as a jeweler's apprentice But Edward was not really into the job because it didn't pay anything and he didn't like it So he lasted about six months He went on the road for a year He's not going to like being a jeweler's assistant No So he lasted about six months before he quit and hit the road again Attaboy And ended up working for a traveling circus Oh God Next he went to New York in 1856 and started selling books door to door In 1859 he published a book that his mother had written called A Peep of Realities Sold very well It did? Oh wow That might have been because Edward was a very good looking guy He was often compared to John Wilkes Booth the hottie at the time Everyone remembers him for his good looks He was a great dresser He often wore a cape and used a walking stick So in today's world he would look like a fucking lunatic Yeah he's crazy In today's world he's the penguin Back then they were like what a snazzy dresser Look at his cape But his life was about to completely change because of a bet In 1860 just before the presidential election Edward Weston made a wager with a friend Edward bet that Lincoln would lose the election Okay Of course he lost that bet as we all know Yes The bet was whoever lost had to walk from Boston Oh Jesus Christ To Washington D.C. in ten days Getting there before the inauguration ceremony Oh my God That was 478 miles Oh my God you got to gump it to D.C. What a boring time it must be when all you could bet on were presidential elections and the loser had to walk For ten days True to his word Edward set out on foot on New Year's Day in 1861 First he walked from Hartford to New Haven Connecticut He made the best of it dropping off book catalogs at houses he passed The distance was 36 miles which he did in 11 hours He said he felt no ill effects and then knew he could make it to D.C. So he started making arrangements But how many? How? Okay D.C. is how many miles? 478 He has ten days Yeah That doesn't seem doable 40 miles a day so 40 plus miles a day That's a lot Yeah that is a lot I'm glad we're on the same page So he hired a carriage to ride with him as support and to be a witness Next he talked to the Grover and Baker sewing machine company into giving him $100 to hand out promotional materials for them as he walked Okay Then he got a pharmacy, a photographic studio and a haberdashery to do the same He also got the rubber clothing company to give him a rubber suit Okay why? I don't know That's the best answer Like I get that it might rain but a rubber suit sounds really just awful at every level Terrible, terrible A rubber suit? It doesn't breathe as much as I thought it would You know how bad it would smell when you took it out Getting a little musty under here if I'm being honest with you I can't believe rubber suits didn't catch on It just doesn't breathe Then Edward sent newspapers along the route, his itinerary, he was creating a buzz So he's a bit of a marketer His twitter would be great On February 22nd 1861, Weston came to Beacon Hill to start his walk He was wearing blue wool tights, a white shirt and a heavy blue coat with brass buttons So perfect attire for this journey Get your wool pants on He also decided on boots that were too large Because of the papers a crowd was waiting to see him off He was then arrested That's going to hinder things For unpaid debts He owed $90 to a couple of creditors He was taken to the police station where he promised to pay the debts and then he was released It's a weird start And I'm off, get over here You're arrested, why? For not paying your debts, I promise to pay my debts I'm actually paying your debt right now It's just... Yeah, I promise I'll pay my debt So a bit of a delay, a couple hours Then the crowd was still waiting for him though now they were irritated Some yelled shame on them and demanded to know who the creditors were Shame on the creditors? Oh god, we've always been the same Yeah, nothing's changed So he began to walk And then he was arrested For jaywalking At first joined by several hundred people As he left from State House down Beacon Street Eventually the crowd peeled off and he was alone That evening he arrived in Farmingham where he was escorted by... Framingham I think you mean, right? It might have been auto-corrected He was escorted by waiting drummer boys Who met him at the edge of town Is he Charles Dickens? That copied him to the inn for... Drummer boys? What the fuck? It's the 1800s It's just absurd Okay, drummer boys? A few women in a brothel were also waiting for him One asked if she could kiss him and have him pass it on to the president Oh wow That's a weird thing Mr. President, I actually have something for you And if you'll excuse me Mr. President, I now need to suck your dick I'm just passing along what I was told to, sir Edward got a kiss from every woman in the brothel to give to the president Oh boy And off he went Continuing to walk that night, his way lit by just a kerosene lamp At midnight he arrived in Worcester and was immediately arrested for another death This is unreal More deaths? Again he was held for two hours He was finally released when two men he didn't even know signed a promissory note Wow Off he went again, walking Now word was out that every... Every town he came to He was met by cheering crowds That's crazy People camp, people are like this is fucking awesome They wait hours, he comes, they cheer, it's a whole thing And he just walks through In South Brookfield he had a brass band that walked with him In another town they gave him a slew of seven guns People always offered him something to drink and he often had milk Crowds would wait for as long as six hours Milk? He's just walking in wool and drinking milk This dude's wool panties probably smelled real weird Crowds would wait for as long as six hours for him to show up Crowds are dumb When he got to Milford he found they had lit bonfires And the hotel owner gave him a free room to rest for a little bit He doesn't have much time On February 27th he walked into Manhattan He had breakfast, took some photos with people Then took a nap on an office table at Grover and Baker's, his sponsor Oh man, it's a nightmare, it's a nightmare jaunt He did not rest for more than four hours at a time to keep pace Near Philadelphia he got lost and went 12 miles in the wrong direction Oh that's gotta be a pain Oh that fucking, oh Need an extra glass of milk to soothe that one Just, that's gotta hurt so much I guess I'll just have another glass of delicious milk to quench my thirst Now, one reason that this walk was so popular was gambling In saloons all over the East Coast, bets were being made Wow, oh no They were betting on whether or not he would get there before Lincoln's inauguration And he arrived in D.C. on the day of the inauguration at 5 p.m. The inauguration had taken place at noon Oh fuck He was five hours too late Oh fuck The entire trip had taken 10 days, 4 hours and 12 minutes Oh my god And he failed Oh my god But he got an invitation to go to an inaugural party and met Lincoln Lincoln offered to pay his train fare back to Boston but Edward was set on walking back That's the worst thing that happens in this story Was it after the kisses? Because then it's like cab fare He made out with Lincoln for about 25 minutes He kissed Lincoln for 25 minutes He kissed and Lincoln would be like, okay, I think that's enough And he'd be like, no, Bridget, this is what I'm talking about You forgot about Bridget She liked to swirl her tongue So he set on walking back but then the Civil War broke out Before he was ready to head back and he decided to quote, use my pedestrian abilities in serving our government Okay Edward Weston became a messenger for the Union Army Oh wow When the war was over, Edward found himself thousands of dollars in debt Oh boy So he turned to what he knew best Walking Walking Oh god Look Edward made a deal with a well-known New York gambler Who made a bet with another gambler Just checking The bet was whether or not Edward could walk 1,200 miles from Portland, Maine to Chicago, Illinois in 30 days Oh my god Now you're interested Well, he would take Sundays off because Edward's mother didn't want him walking on the Sabbath Yeah, that makes total sense Yeah Nothing weird about that Can't walk on Sundays, Jesus Well, religious people thought that this was a waste of your god-given energy Right You know what I mean, like, god gave you the ability to do things so you should be working whatever, not walking from So all these clergy were against this That's a weird take on it too You know You shouldn't walk, god made you But it was walking for money, right? Yeah So did them Well, they didn't mind when he did it on water Okay, that's fair So That wasn't for money If you, well, it was for bread and fish I remember that one of the wise men bet his myrrh on it I feel like you're not No, if you read Revelations, one of the wise men bet fish for his myrrh that he was taking I provide the information I don't know why it can't be a two-way road The bet was for $10,000 Oh, fuck Which is the equivalent of $147,000 today Wow So two guys bet against each other that he could make it That's just two big gamblers Right, but then he, but he gets his debts squashed if he doesn't He gets a cut from the winner Okay If he doesn't do it, then he gets nothing Okay He walked out of Portland on October 29th, 1867 wearing a black jacket, red leggings, and very special boots Is he a Spice Girl? The boots had tubes Just your regular tubed boot That he could pour whiskey into This guy's To, quote, keep his feet from chafing or swelling He had whiskey boots? We had whiskey boots where he put whiskey into He, sorry, I don't want to He wanted to have whiskey feet Sorry, just to be clear Whiskey feet's very His plan was to put whiskey on his feet Correct And put whiskey in his shoes Correct Because that'll help him It would stop with the chafing and swelling Right Okay Very medical Sure, totally, makes total sense I'm sure some people raise an eyebrow It'd be great if he lost his balance if his feet were shit-faced I think my feet are hammered This time there were four witnesses in two different carriages who would be following him Now the entire nation became focused on Weston the Walker When he got to Buffalo, he was escorted through the city by 24 police officers People lined the streets and were packed into windows and on the roofs of every building When he got to Erie, the local paper wrote, quote, The excitement here over the matter is really extraordinary Oh, man Everybody is discussing Did you hear? He's walking There's a man walking by He's got whiskey feet and he's walking Everybody's discussing it and all eager for the latest rumor concerning the pedestrian hero Congress meets in a week or so Nobody is talking about Congress It's all Weston, Weston the Walker Weston the pedestrian, he's the man Oh, God, the writing is just how you expect them to talk Weston, you see, he's the man Edward did have one big concern though Because so much money was being bet and whether or not he would make it, he was worried that gamblers would try to harm him Totally, that's okay He would only eat food that one of the witnesses, Mr. Grinnell, had watched prepared Okay He was also worried that someone would run out and try to stomp on his feet Yeah But he was never troubled And he strolled into Chicago at 9 a.m. on Thanksgiving Day, a day ahead of schedule Wow 50,000 people No, no, no, no, no, no He's had a Super Bowl parade? Is this what started the Macy's Day parade? 50,000 people 50,000 people 50,000 people To cheer him on Look at him walking 50 police escorted him to his hotel as a marching band walked behind him Harper's wrote, this walk made Weston's name a household word Wow From walking This happened to be a time when roller skating was exploding across America Dave, Dave, Dave What? No, okay What are you thinking? I'm thinking that this guy's about to roller skate across to somewhere Oh, that was true Roller rinks are being built in cities and towns everywhere Also, industrialization meant urban people were looking for sports to attend Up until now, the biggest sports were cock fighting, dog fighting, and bare-knuckle boxing Many of which were illegal These new buildings allowed Edward Weston to tour And that's just what the new husband and father did He toured? In 1871 I gotta hear this He would go to a town Oh, God And for 50 cents, you could watch Edward Sorry Dave He would walk in circles Oh, my God For hours on temporary tracks What? He would just walk, there would be a time limit, so he would do like 100 miles in 25 hours You just stand there and wait for him to leave, you get some free walks Oh, he's walking He would also bet on himself being able to do it in a certain amount of time What? In front of 5,000 people in Manhattan, he walked 100 miles in 22 hours and won a bet of $2,500 Oh, my God You can't write this I mean, how do you walk yourself into this situation? How do you become a professional walker? 5,000 people watched for 22 hours? Yeah As he walked? Yeah What's the conversation like at hour 18? There he goes Boy, this is really, he's really just walking, isn't he? Man, I ain't seen a guy walk like this in a while Look at him walk Let's see that again Let's see that walk again in super slow motion replay Wait, wait Let's see him come back around Look at it There he goes It took a while, but he went by Wow That's the 950th time he's done that Some gigs were in such small buildings that it would take 50 laps to walk a mile So like, as comics, when you walk into a venue, you size it up to sort of see the seating He goes in there, he's like, oh, boy, I'm going to have to walk a lot of circles in here So it's just around the pool table I'm going to get dizzy It was also pretty boring to just watch a guy walk in a circle So he would hire a band and sometimes he'd play the trumpet as he walked You got to spice it up Season 3 He was known for dressing well He would dress in ruffled shirts and usually carried a riding crop or a cane Faster me, faster! Go, boy, go! Reviews poured in One newspaper said he walked with, quote, a splendid sweeping stride that carries him over the road like the wind This is insanity He walks like an angel Another said his legs, quote, were put on like two toothpick picks stuck in opposite sides of a potato So reviews varied Either way, to many young men in America Don't say he was a hero He was a sports hero Oh, God A sports hero Eat your Weetabix Stay in school and remember, walk! Man, did you see that walk last night? Man, I'll tell you, I did not think he was going to keep walking He did! That was crazy! The whole time! He walked! The sport of walking grew and grew God damn it The sport of walking? The United States of America had walking fever We've had it since we stood upright Amateur walking races began to be held everywhere How do you, is it like speed walking? Yeah Race walking? Companies put together pedestrian teams What? The department stores in New York put their employees up against each other Our employees will walk circles around you, boys, from that other store Good luck, Target Good luck, Target Kmart's got the walking spirit In St. Louis, the six newspapers had a walk-off A cobbler invented the walking shoe, which had springs in it Some men just bet large amounts against each other and walked that shit off So you'd just be like, I cannot walk you, Jerry! And then you and Jerry would go down and have a walk-off This is the time that America discovered walking This is it After we'd been walking This is the walking time Even Mark Twain was caught up in the walking hysteria Oh boy He and a friend tried to walk 100 miles from Hartford to Boston But gave up after 10 miles and took a train That's the thought that counts One man who became interested in walking was Dan O'Leary O'Leary was born I can't get used to the things you're saying One man who got excited by walking It's gonna keep happening Oh gosh, I'll get used to it O'Leary was born in 1846 in Ireland His family had a small cottage in County Cork The potato famine was in full swing when he was born And lasted for the first six years of his life When he was 20 years old, like many Irish, he made his way to America He was alone and had no money Dan O'Leary made his way to Chicago and got a job in a lumber yard Like Edward Watson, Dan started to sell books door to door And he made a good living hocking the Bible and Webster's dictionaries Okay He sold many of his books on payment plans How much was a book? I don't know What you can do is, it's very simple You can pay 10 cents now, 10 cents next month, and then 10 cents the month after that So it's just 30 cents? 30 cents, but you can do it now with three easy payments Low easy payments of just 10 cents each But it's just 30 cents? Right, or 10 cents, three times He's the guy who invented the easy payments Just four easy installments But wait, wait, wait, there's more Oh God But that all came to a crashing end when the Great Fire destroyed Chicago in 1871 Hundreds of people were killed and thousands lost their homes Three square miles of Chicago were burnt down And many of those were customers of Dan O'Leary Overnight he was completely screwed Now the only place he could sell books was in the suburbs So each day he started making the long walk to sell his books Go on Then in 1873 O'Leary heard some men talking about Edward trying to walk 100 miles in 24 hours O'Leary said he could do that And they told him the only way to do it was to hire a haul, put up some money, and make a challenge So O'Leary rented a roller rink and put out word that he would be walking 100 miles in 24 hours And please tell me nobody gave a shit On July 14th, 1874 he began his challenge against time He only had ice water and brandy and finished with 43 minutes to spare He was hooked On walking The next month he rented the rink and walked 105 miles in 23 hours and 38 minutes Whoa, exciting stuff Meanwhile, Edward was just becoming bigger and bigger In an event in New Jersey in 1874, the number of bets placed was so huge That the mayor of Newark considered bringing in the National Guard to keep Edward safe Oh my god For walking Keep him safe while walking A gambler was arrested after he tried to pour some sort of chemical on the track That guy's plan's amazing Excuse me sir In the end, Edward did it with just 30 minutes left on the clock Then he received a challenge from Dan O'Leary Oh my god A 250 mile match Edward's response was simple Make a good record first and meet me after Yeah, you gotta learn to walk before you can walk You almost spit tea out So to walk race the king, he had to make a name for himself first This is just like how you get the boxing heavyweight championship It's exactly that Hey, get a few fights under your belt, then maybe you get a shot at the champ But it's with walking Hey man, look, walk a little bit more People have been walking the whole fucking time In Philadelphia in April 1875 They threw batteries at him Dan O'Leary broke Edward's 24 hour record by walking 116 miles in 23 hours, 12 minutes, and 53 seconds Wow, somebody's stepping up Shit was on Oh god Someone is fucking walking Yeah, who's this Rocky Balboa kid I'm hearing about? And O'Leary's name was getting out there One month later, he was packing in the crowds in Chicago In front of 5,000 people, O'Leary broke Edward's 500 mile record by two hours He was given a gold medal that claimed he was, quote, champion pedestrian of America Wow, well, you said it couldn't be done It's being done You're the best walker Or are you? You're the best walker we have So he was on, Edward Couldn't you, like, could you, would you, so people, you never were running? Could people arguably be like, that looked like a skip No, rules against running Looked like he trotted Could you keep pretending to trip and sort of run? Just do that, the whole thing? Oh, another trip No Oh They weren't idiots No, no, they weren't idiots They were just the people gambling on people walking Not idiots So he was on, Edward, and he agreed to race Dan O'Leary This reminds me of the paint drying Olympics He agreed to race Dan O'Leary in the summer of 1875 People were excited Gosh The reigning hero of walking was being challenged by a young upstart It was marketed as the great walking match for the championship of the world Super catchy and normal 500 miles, two men Two men enter Walking Both men walk out Both men walk and then one Both will walk out, but one will walk out Two men Yes Two men enter walking One enters walking, one exits walking They keep walking A champion and the other will still be walking One walks the most One walking man, one, I lost it Two men walking Two men walk Two men walk out All right, we're going to have to kill one at the end I think that's what we're all saying the same thing One has to die at the end They found the largest venue possible, Chicago's Interstate Exposition Building Edward, being the big draw, was to get $500 above half the gate Tickets were 50 cents each Okay The Chicago Evening Journal wrote, quote, he travels in style being attended by two Negro servants Just that is very style, they're so in Black is so in right now So in The one big rule was that the race had to end before midnight the following Saturday night First, Edward still didn't walk on the Sabbath because of his mommy Right Second, Chicago had blue laws that did not allow for public amusements on Sunday So six days is as long as the walking could go on, so you could go from, as soon as it turned midnight, 12 a.m. on Saturday until a week later, 12 a.m. Because there was a ban on amusement Right, and walking is Super fun to watch Super exciting Who bans amusement? Chicago How the fuck? How do you ban amusement? You can't, you can't ban, no revelry, no joy on Sundays In all pedestrian races, one foot had to be in contact with the ground at all times They called it walking This prevented running or galloping Okay, but again, I really think I found something with the trip around the track I can't stop tripping At midnight on November 15th, 1875, the race began 400 people were there for the opening step Edward, always looking sweet, wore a black velvet suit with black boots and a silk sash diagonally across his chest You can really like hear the Lady Gaga-ing and Elton John-ing of his wardrobe You can tell his ego is sort of exploding by the amount of fabrics he's wearing With a suede mask And he had the old trademark, his riding crop Dan O'Leary had on white tights, a striped tank top, and a brown knitted jacket, as well as light walking shoes Whoa, man, both those looks The crowd began to build as the long walk went on A few times, police were called to get people off the track Like running on the stage when Led Zeppelin's playing So Chicago Edward and Dan walked and walked and slept only three or five hours per night They usually ate while they walked That's so weird Chicago Tribune I'll have the pasta This is hard I should not have ordered chili Another glass of milk, please Chili Chicago Tribune On Tuesday evening, Weston's gestures, scraps of song, mimicry of actors, and other recreations, such as trumpet playing, were greatly enjoyed by the audience and seemingly by himself I'm sure he was a big fan of him He's the T.O. of walking On Friday night, the crowd was enormous Tons of Irish immigrants yelling until they were a horse Keep walking! Come on! One foot forward and the other! Fuck this guy! Come on! Don't fuck him! No, fucking beat him! No, don't fuck him! No, don't fuck him! What the fuck are you doing? This is a walking competition This is a walking competition Are you looking for gay sex? It's not here No, there's fucking many places down there Not on Sunday though No amusement on Sundays It's not amusement Fair enough Not the way I do it I'm going to actually switch seats now that you... Let's get out of here Don't touch my arm, please Let go of my arm Let me show you You've got a strong grip on there Let go of the fucking arm I'm going to show you me potato Excuse me? Yeah Well, I've always loved a bit of potatoes Those aren't potatoes at all! It's been a while since we did an Irish accident Yeah Sirenite! The final night of the race The surge of people trying to get in was unparalleled The expo was, quote, Surrounded by a surging mass of humanity Eager to procure tickets Excitement could not have reached a higher pitch, it would seem For appearances indicated almost a wild delirium Of the throng that besieged the building It's just, if it wasn't walking It would make sense When you say those things, I can see the event But then I can't see what's in the spotlight The walking Walking At 8pm, 5... Holy shit, he's playing the trumpet! Look at him go! Eww! At 8pm, 5,000 people were inside They shouted, yelled, and cheered By 9pm, it was 6,000 At 11.15pm, Dan O'Leary completed his 500th mile Edward was not even close He looked terrible and was on mile 451 Jesus! It was over America's greatest pedestrian of the past five years was beaten They said it couldn't be done I didn't think anyone could walk as fast as him He's a very good walker I told you he'd do it! I walked! That's our boy! I did it! Would anyone like to buy a book? O'Leary was given a giant gold medal that declared him Champion of the World Of walking Edward walked with 5,000, O'Leary 4,500 That's what they walked with? Yeah, well, you know what I mean I mean, they still walked out of there Right, they walked out It's not like they ran out No, God no! After the race, Edward said charcoal fumes from the peanut vendor's cart Had gotten into his head and made him nervous and worried him Yeah, it was the peanuts Let's just talk about what he's... The reason why he couldn't walk fast was because of peanut smoke That's, yeah Just a normal sentence It's science Just a normal sentence He said he'd also gotten death threats from the crowd And claimed he didn't want to get riddled and quote End up a human colander for winning the race Well, that's a little dramatic O'Leary said Edward was insulting the city of Chicago And that it was a lie He's insulting the sport of walk Well, thank you He then told Edward to ask for a rematch or stop saying his name And to take Champion Pedestrian of America from his title So fucking O'Leary's like Mike Tyson is born Larry's not up for all the bullshit No Edward then decided to take his show on the road He went to England in 1876 Oh man, it's like when the Beatles came to America That's right Larry challenged England's top pedestrian William Perkins to a 24 hour race The British medical journal The Lancet on America The Lancet? Yeah, it's a famous one Is it like a mole publication? It's a medical journal This month boils Oh boy Quote They are beyond other nations in their hygienic unwholesomeness Living habitually in their close stove heated rooms Bolting their food at railway speed Year by year, Americans grow thinner, lighter, and shorter lived So they're just talking shit about it Well, we showed them This guy doesn't have it Yeah, we got really fat We got way wider And we're still dying younger Boom England 5,000 people paid to watch the match But it wasn't a long race Perkins quit after 65 miles Oh boy His feet were swollen and bleeding Had he never walked? Turns out English pedestrians didn't do long walks but instead short ones Where we go on jaunts Or where they could run and jog We didn't understand the rule When you say walking, we didn't understand you meant walking We meant trotting, a bit of a skipper That's how we walk We thought walking meant running We misunderstood the whole time I'm not going to do this with the road, with the first legs Alright, why is he just walking? What about his walking? What is that? What is that? Sorry Oh my goodness Someone get me a whiskey bucket for my feet Edward continued walking after Perkins quit and finished the 24 hour race Wow Suddenly he was the talk of the town Yeah And in America, Dan O'Leary was the talk of the US He was now touring to sold out crowds He was truly Thank you Denver! You've been amazing! Great walking! I love how slow you were! Your pace is so consistent! O'Leary was truly the champion pedestrian of America Then he went to England Oh snap The minute he landed, he challenged Edward to a six day race Oh boy, Edward's like, can you just leave me alone please? And O'Leary won again Wow He completed 519 miles, while Ed had 510 O'Leary won what today would be $280,000 Holy shit! And he headed back to the States Now Edward was broke His reputation was shattered And he was stranded in England This is like the Def Leppard story Of walking In March 1878, the first Astley belt was held in New York The winner got a large gold and jeweled belt from Sir John Astley Another victory and more money Okay By the time the third Astley belt came around, it was the biggest sporting event in the history of New York City Sorry, so what did they award the Astley belt for? Walking It was for walking? Yeah Oh my god What did you think we were talking about? No, I thought it was maybe like another sports award No It's still... It's just... Alright You keep hoping this is going to be something different Somehow, I mean I've never wanted to hear the word skip more in my life Throw a fucking hurdle out there, something, Jesus God So it's the biggest sporting event in the history of New York City Western Union set up a telegram to send results around the country Wow The crowd outside who couldn't get in rushed the building but were beaten back by police Well, at least some things don't change This led to a riot that lasted for two hours The event... The walking event was so popular, newspapers were releasing hourly updates on their front pages Oh my god Spectators were sleeping in the arena on hard benches Gas lights were lowered around midnight On Wednesday night, a balcony collapsed and a hundred people tumbled into a heap on broken wood The band stopped playing because of the collapse but then the police ordered them to start playing again Keep playing They played St. Patrick's Day in the morning Sure, well that's what you, that's what, that's your go-to when there's a tragedy in the crowd No one died in the balcony collapse but a few were seriously wounded Within an hour, people were climbing on the wreckage to get a better view of the tracks Jesus What To watch them walk I think I broke you The, what, they're walking Walking, I mean we've talked about some dumb, like some dumb things that we've done in our history You know, even like the fashion is, but Climbing on like a debris pile To watch two dudes walk like halfway through their walk race Where people had just been severely injured Almost killed Altogether, the event brought in 1.25 million in today's money I mean, this, like Don King should have been there Meanwhile, Edward Weston was stuck in England trying to make money by walking Usually in solo events held in music halls So now he's like on the downside of his career I mean it's terrible, he's walking in circles in music halls I used to, I used to walk in front of 5,000 people I used to be somebody, just walk Shut up and get out there and fucking walk We didn't pay you to talk In 1879, there was an Astley belt held in England Oh boy So Edward entered Lucky for him, the champion and the favorite Heard his foot the day before and withdrew Wow He stepped on a rock, weird Yeah, I mean that happens Can you walk? Yeah I can walk Can you walk? I don't think I'll be able to walk Edward won and got $2,000 This enabled him to return to the US, which he did on May 23rd, 1879 I'm rooting for him He was met at the dock by the mayor of New York You're back, so you know, here he is in a place where people think he's great But times had changed O'Leary was now putting on his own event called the O'Leary belt Oh my god, he's gotten big He's huge, he's no fucking joke No And the fifth Astley belt was coming up The price was now $1 to get in The reason was, of the price increase Increase? Was, quote, to keep out an undesirable crowd So they don't want the fucking ruffians coming in to watch them walking You don't want a blackout guy walking No The first black pedestrian entered the race The Jackie Robinson of walking That's right And it was a disaster for Edward He was in sixth place and not doing well A newspaper said he was using, quote, queer antics in an attempt to amuse the audience Twisting his body into all sorts of apish forms to the great disgust and hisses of many So now he's just putting on this weird He's now like a wrestling villain? He's putting on this weird show Now he's like, the show's in the show I think that, I think that for him Like he was doing bad stuff with the trumpet, but I think for him he realized how boring it was And then he crossed over into clown-ish walking Here's what I think happened I think he had lost his ability to walk Relatively speaking He'd lost his ability to walk And so he decided he needed to spice up It's like when those people who enter eating competitions who aren't going to win They just dress like fucking lunatics instead That's how you know So I think he was just, he knew he wasn't going to win So he started to do an impression of an orangutan And I love that the crowd hated it Oh, it's just bullshit Come on He's barely walking He's just making weird faces One reporter said Edward was quote, insane On the sixth day Oh God Edward finished his 450th mile and the crowd barely applauded Oh God Edward lost it He started crying Oh my God, Dave And went to his tent where it was reported he was quite hysterical Jesus, why? He was sobbing so hard, attendants thought he was having convulsions Oh my God Well, again, it's walking, but My heart goes out to him But again Yeah, but he was on the top of the walking world Again, we've covered this That is He sold out crowds I understand But again A man named Charles Rowell won Next up was the O'Leary belt race in April 1880 It was the highest attended walking match in New York history In the fourth race in eight months in the city This time the first black pedestrian won Okay A New York paper said he won because he had quote A strong mixture of French blood in his veins What? He couldn't, a black guy couldn't have won Boy, it is amazing It's so amazing to go to a time when people are like Well, blacks aren't athletic Black people aren't athletic people It's the French blood in him that won that Yeah, there's going to be some French in that guy Trust me Pedestrianism was now at its peak In 1881, rumors began that walking matches were being fixed by bookies Hey, fall down in the fourth mile You know what I want you to do? I want you to stop walking Hey, look, walk the first 200 normal, then you're going to get a leg cramp See, a big cramp in your leg Just slow it down, you know what I mean, boy? Slow it down Hey, look, I'm not asking you to not walk I'm just saying don't walk great You don't have to walk, walk, you know what I mean? Just walk Walk? There's a lot of people out there depending on you to have a bad day of walking, if you know what I mean Johnny, you told him, right? Why is he walking so much? God damn it, he's going to screw us An athletic venue where fixing was happening, where there was fixing going on This is just insane What? Fixing walking? What the fuck are we talking about? Fixing walking, there's a place where people go to watch walking and now people are taking walk dives That's right What? At the time, a venue where there was fixing going on was called a hippodrome, that's what people would call it If everyone knew there was illegal... Walking Illegal matches that they would call it a hippodrome Fixed walking, was there any reason they would call it a hippo? I don't know, I couldn't figure that out, I looked Betting was now happening all during a race, you could bet on winners, losers, number of completed laps, time period, order of finish, etc. There's probably a guy who's got like one buck on a shoelace coming untied I win a hundred bucks if his shoe goes untied That's a crazy bet, Johnny Yeah, I'm crazy, I'm Johnny A referee officiating a match in San Francisco was so disgusted by the blatant fixing that he quit in the middle of a match And announced to the crowd that it was a hippodrome Okay, I don't want to stop us Go ahead You just said a referee Well, remember what I said about you gotta have a foot on the ground? I don't even want to get into it I don't even want to get into how does one become a walk referee Well, you study, I'm sure You study walking? You go to their camps I can't, I can't What correct walking is? You know what, you say that, but then when you see a bad walking referee, the whole match is fucked up You know what I mean? Yeah, oh, oh, I get it God, a walking referee? I'm quitting! It became pretty apparent the O'Leary Belt of 1881 was afflicted with fixing Twelve of the 19 walkers dropped out in the first two days Oh man, they didn't even make it look good Over the week, attendance dropped so much that the event only made $650 Okay The last one made $1.5 million Right Three months later, at an O'Leary event, a second place walker said he would quit unless O'Leary paid him $500 So in the middle of walking, a guy's like, I'm out of here unless you give me $500 clamps Jesus So I think what we're learning is that walkers aren't the most moral of people We're all walkers Okay, that's fair Professional walkers That's a fair Yeah, professional pedestrians were easy to It's okay, you don't have to keep talking So the final Astley Belt was held in 1881 After that, there would be tons of events The Ennis Belt, the Fox Diamond Belt, the Rose Belt But they would never match the epic Astley Belt And the O'Leary Belt was done too The sport had changed and was now saturated with walking races So it's like comedy in the 80s It's like stand-up comedy in the 80s It's too much Edward and O'Leary tried to come back in 1885 They set up a rematch tour that was sponsored by the temperance movement How does Look, if you're going to walk, do it for not alcohol How does that even What are you talking about Only walking would be sponsored by not doing something The plan was to race in venues that didn't serve alcohol Well, that's going to get pretty fucking boring But the two men did not get along from the New York Times Quote Weston saying snatches of songs in a cracked and uncertain tone of voice And then O'Leary yelled, shut up, you jumping jack across the rink See, now I'm starting to feel interested in walking I like how he wasn't a good singer She's a grand old flag, she's a high flying flag Shut up, you jumping jack On the final day, less than 100 people came out to watch the OGs of walking But the tour went on After about six weeks of the temperance tour, O'Leary was said to be acting erratically Rumors started that he was drinking heavily I mean, it's so perfect You have it all Just save it till after Perfect In Erie, Pennsylvania, O'Leary pushed Edward off the track twice Twice? Fuck yes Ow The crowd hissed, but Edward asked them to forgive O'Leary Forgive him Quote on account of his condition Wow, what a good guy Come on, you guys, he's drunk He's drunk Enjoy the temperance race Yeah, that's amazing Two months into the tour, O'Leary collapsed on the track, completely shit-faced Is this when the sport of sleeping started? We're gonna have a sleep off O'Leary kept walking alone on the track for four days until he completed 2,500 miles to collect his profits At the end of the match, Edward announced to the crowd that he was retiring Uh In 1889 Today I consider myself Self, self The luckiest walker Walker, walker Off the face of the planet That's why today I'm retiring From walking How are you gonna get out of here? I'll run, run, run Boo Fuck you, you, you Stop booing, booing, booing Running is for losers You'll see, running, running In 1889, New York's main pedestrian venue was demolished and a new arena was built just for bike races in its place Okay Now that was the, the uh What's their main arena in New York? Madison Square Garden? Madison Square Garden, yeah It was originally called Gilmore Garden and that's where all the water races took place Jesus And then they knocked it down and they built a new garden The first bike race was six days Okay In, but there were tons of crashes, it was a total fucking nightmare Right Because guys were tired, right? Bikes In 1899, New York passed a bill banning contests of skill, speed, or endurance that lasted for more than 24 hours Such a weird ban In 1906, Dan O'Leary was back to selling books Wow He had lost all the money he won from walking How? Fuck, I don't know So much money he made, so much money From walking That same year, Edward Weston, now 67 years old, walked over 90 miles from Philadelphia to New York in under 24 hours The next year he walked the one that put him on the map in the first place from Portland, Maine to Chicago And he did it faster than he did it the first time Wow He did it in 25 days, still taking Sundays off He was cheered on by people in the towns he passed through As usual, Edward had no money when he got to Chicago He blamed his agent His agent? What? He blamed his agent? What is, yeah Marty, listen Hey, kid, can I talk to you? Yeah Man, kid, you can walk You can really walk Thanks You want to, you need some representation? I'd like to take you out You gotta walk like I haven't seen a stride like that in a while, kid Oh boy, mister, I mean, I'd love to walk professionally Oh, you'd love to, you're gonna Me and you? Together? A team? Me sitting around, you walking? Yeah Huh? Yeah, it seems fair Yeah And then now, now he doesn't have any money Now his agent's like, look, nobody's calling anymore Look, people don't care about walking Sorry, people, I guess people woke up from what we'll call the walk coma All my guys are bike riders Everybody's biking Oh boy So, he has no money, he blames his agent Finally, someone put together a benefit to raise money so he could get back to New York Wow Alleria must have seen all this because Of the mighty of walking In 1907, he decided to walk a thousand miles in a hundred consecutive hours Which he did Jesus A newspaper called it the crowning effort of his long career Of course, Alleria couldn't stop And he challenged Edward to a six-day walking contest Edward said no Okay, smart At the age of 70 in 1909, Edward walked 4,000 miles across the country from New York to San Francisco At 70 Why? Because he loves it God He doesn't know what else to do He's just walking Is it just walking? Yes Yes, it is It took him 105 days No Sundays Jesus In 1913, he walked 1,546 miles from New York to Minneapolis Then, in 1922, at the age of 84, Edward said he was making his last walk And pulled off a 495-mile walk from Buffalo to New York City Wow At 84, I said, right? No Yeah, 84 Fuck 84 years old, he walked 495 miles My God Five years later, March 1927, Edward Weston was found wandering the streets of Greenwich Village, dazed and destitute At that point, he was divorced and no longer in touch with his children He lived with a woman named Annie O'Hagan He would introduce her to people as his niece or his secretary or his adopted daughter or his housekeeper Good, consistency matters in lies That month, he was hit by a taxi while crossing the street He would never walk again He died two years later You're telling me that he got paralyzed and couldn't walk? Yes This has got to be bullshit He... He... What? I can't... I mean, it's just... it's all so insane, but it... The idea that this... all he had was walking God, you know what? I know I'm old, but at least I can still walk So what, is there now going to be a wheelchair race? No, he died two years later And before... two months before he died, he turned 90 and he said, this is the bitterest day of my life Oh God So he went off well Okay, blow out your candles, Grandpa O'Leary, meanwhile, became a baseball pedestrian Do I need to ask? Putting on walking exhibitions before major and minor league games and ballparks After his exhibition, he would go into the crowd with his hat out and ask for change Oh God, Jesus Walking doesn't pay It does Somehow On May 30th, 1933, O'Leary died in a hotel in Glendale, California He was 87 One obituary said, quote, he liked the grog He liked the grog Holy shit Well, I'll tell you, it sounds like walking is pretty good for you They both lived almost... they both lived almost 90 Look God, that is insanity What the fuck was wrong with this country? Walking Walking People paid money and sat for hours Slept there Watching people walk in circles Fucking up for days It makes you like... like they would watch cricket and be like, this is amazing You'd like to think that before television came around, people were sitting around just having stimulating intellectual conversations No They were watching guys walk in circles Walk in circles And yelling at them By the way, if you're at the show where they... where he pushes him off the walking track twice wasted, that is... that is worth it But that's not walking And you know how many people said they were at that one and weren't at that one? What? It's like the ice ball of walking events? Are you kidding me? Yes, it is There's like 400,000 people like, I was there They only said 80 Well, that's... that's some crazy shit America God God, it's walking I love how through... what? An hour you never stop saying, it's walking Dave, I'll never stop saying it's walking You know why? Because it's walking They were walking Everything you're saying makes sense except for the activity All the lifestyle, the ups and the downs, the talent, the showmanship, the crowd fanfare All that makes sense But when you tell me what it's for, I can't process it Let me put this out there too There's no way there weren't walking groupies Oh God Fucking these guys Oh God You looked great out there walking tonight, Edward Yeah Oh Christ I mean, there's no way that wasn't... Of course not No, they were totally... yeah, of course They were... yeah, absolutely There were absolutely women lining up to prolly bang these guys Yeah, without a doubt For doing what you do after you crawl It's not even our best form of foot transportation Oh fuck Alright Alright We're signing cars We are signing cars Jesus