 You're listening to the dollop. This is a bi weekly American history podcast. Each week I read a story from American history to my friend Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. Wait, that was the best that I had done it in months and then you I bailed. Fuck. When are we going to get it right? I got it right. Yeah, finally. Nice of you to join me in the right party. We could do a dollop about how many times you've messed up the intro. The endless sabotage of this podcast by you has been noted by many people. God, do you want to look at a dude? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Stay of okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling podcast. Okay. You are queen fakie of made up town. All hail queen shit of Mizeville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. Nicely done, my friend. No. No. So we want to thank all of our subscribers at Patreon. This podcast is brought to you by our subscribers at Patreon. We thank you. It helps a lot. Patreon. Thanks. Yeah, that was good. Patreon. Give us the fucking money. Okay. Patreon. Do you want us to live on beans near a hobo fire? Well. Patreon. I think some of them would. Just for the stories alone. Well, look, I've been there and I don't want to go back. I don't think that's true. I don't think you ever lived near a barrel. You don't think I've ever eaten beans near a hobo fire? Sir. I gotta go. Sir, do you have any idea who you're talking to? And about? 1834. Henrietta Howland Robinson was born in New Bedford, Massachusetts. Okay. It was just before the Victorian age. Henrietta's really dropped off as a name. It super has for a reason. Because it's so associated to Henry? I just think it's super long and... It'll come back. Pain in the ass-ish, I think. Jesus. I said it and I mean it. I stand by it. Very strong feelings. All right. Let's just move past the name. I agree. Victorian age was there of peace, prosperity, refined sensibilities, and Victorian mentality, which included sexual restraint, low tolerance of crime, and a strict code of conduct. Okay. Both... She was called Hetty. Hetty. So that's what we're going to call her. Okay. Hetty. Both Hetty's parents were from very well-established colonial families. Her great grandfather had owned the country's biggest whaling fleet. Okay. Her father was all about making money and passed on some great advice to his daughter. Quote, my father told me never to give anyone anything and not even kindness. That's smart advice. It's good advice. From a father to a child. I mean, if you want to make money... Look, the world's hell. Now get out there. Hey, fuck everybody. Go get them. Come on, Kitty. True to his word, her father greatly increased the family's wealth. Hetty spent much of her time living with her aunt Sylvia. She lived in Vermont but was sent to boarding school when she was young. She did not stay long and soon was by her father's side in New Bedford while he worked all day. Learning how to be an emotionally normal person. That's exactly right. Learn the empathy of others and the plight of work. Right. When you're with someone who's in a job working with people, everyone understands you have to get along with everybody and everyone's nice. It's like how Hitler's son started the ASPCA. That's what I'm talking about. Hetty... Oh, I already did that. After supper every night, Hetty would read the financial pages from the New York and Boston papers. So just classic teenage kid stuff. Yeah, what kids do. Hetty was very attractive and when she was 20, her father tried to present her to society so that a suitable man would turn her into a wife and a baby maker. So she hadn't really seen society yet. Nope. It sort of caged her getting her ready for the big prom. That's how it works. Sure. Her dad bought her a wardrobe that would be worth in the tens of thousands today. But Hetty didn't care about such things and she sold all the clothes, took the money and invested it all in the stock market. Wow. Take that, Paris Hilton. She moved in with a cousin in New York and didn't spend any money just living off of her relative. Okay. So she's hoarding? No, she's just not paying. She's a player. She's not paying. Yeah, she's a player. Okay. Hetty's mother died when she was 25 years old. Her father was willed the entire estate of her mother. None of it went to Hetty. Hetty was upset about this and wanted to contest the will in court but was concerned that if she lost, she wouldn't get anything when her father died. Okay. Meanwhile, her father, now a single man, decided to make some big changes in his life. He sold all of his shares in the family whaling business and moved to New York City. There he joined a new shipping business and then at the end of the Civil War, he sold all his shares in that business for $5 million. Okay. Which is a lot of fucking money. He's cashing out though. He's cashing out. Hetty went with her dad to New York. She was worried he would meet a woman, get remarried, and start another family which would cut into her inheritance. So she's learned a lot from her dad. She has learned a lot from her dad, hasn't she? At the same time, her Aunt Sylvia was talking about having Hetty having the will rewritten and leaving Hetty out of it. Okay. The current will left everything to Hetty. So Aunt Sylvia was going to give almost all of it to charity and friends. So Hetty raced back to New Bedford and made her aunt promise that she wouldn't ever change her will. Okay. When Aunt Sylvia died two years later, Hetty learned that she had changed her will. That bitch. And Hetty got almost nothing. All for charity. Then her father died in the same year. Hetty got $1 million from him. So she's 31 years old and she's rich. Yeah. She's fucking rich. But that's not enough for my Hetty. No. Hetty's going to need more, girl. Hetty needs more, man. Still, Hetty was a looker and smart and a dude fell for her and they became engaged. Okay. What's not to fall for? He was 45 years old. Whoa. Yeah. He's a little bit older. Yeah. 12 years. Named Edward Green. He was pleasant, well-liked businessman from Vermont. Edward had made his money in the Philadelphia silk trade. So she's not necessarily marrying for personality, maybe. It doesn't sound like it. Right. But also the Philadelphia silk trade was awesome. Yo, I've always said that. I think one of my favorite silk trades. Yeah, well, the silk trades, yeah. It's up there. Philadelphia and then Des Moines. Des Moines is great. They married in 1867, but Hetty made sure they signed prenuptials first and she made- I can't believe they had prenuptials back then. Yeah. Yeah. That's crazy. Yeah. No, everyone's always been awful. That's insane. She even made him renounce all rights to her money before the wedding. Wow. It's not like they sign a prenuptial, but she was like, you can say it out loud. They've each written financial vows. I promise not to take any of your money. Okay. So they kept their fortunes separate, right? Okay. But still she was pissed about being cut out of Aunt Sylvia's will and she challenged it in court. She wanted it all. We call to the stand Aunt Sylvie. Put your hand on the Bible. This is not going to be Sylvie. Sylvie, can we ask you a question about the will and your intent? Does anyone speak dead? Sylvie? Sylvie? What are you trying to say, Sylvie? Okay. I think we might need to take at least a recess. The court rejected Hedy's challenge, so she sued. She just doesn't take no. In court this time, she revealed an earlier will that made her case. Okay. But that will turned out to be a forgery. Even if it wasn't, what is that? I mean, it's just like, you see, she used to think differently than she did at the end. That's right. It doesn't make it a lot to change your mind. Yeah. No, you're right. You are. She used to think differently and this is fake. So yes. The case was widely publicized all over the country and Hedy's ugly public reputation began. Then the shit hit the fan over the will forgery. Her cousins tried to have her indicted for it. So the Greens bailed and went to London to avoid prosecution. It's all coming together. There Hedy gave birth to a son, Edward Howland Robinson Green, who would be nicknamed Ned for whatever reason. Also, no, he has to be a prick. How do you get Ned out of that? Edward Howland Robinson Green. AKA Ned. Ned. Is Ned short for Edward? Ned's short for all those names. Three years later, she had a daughter, Hedy Sylvia Ann Howland Robinson Green. Ruth for short. The Greens lived very well while they were in London, but only spent his money. Smart. Then in 1875, when they believed the statute of limitations had run out on the will forging charges, they returned to Bellow Falls. In Vermont, Hedy started to get dirty. Dirty Hedy? Actually dirty. Filthy? She had dirty hands and fingernails and hardly ever cleaned her clothes. Hedy's taking a turn. Did you not expect this? What, that she would become a pig woman? No. Did not see this coming. Hedy just grew up, grew to love slop. Don't know what to tell you. She would keep wearing. Oh wait. And she hardly ever cleaned her clothes. She would keep wearing them even after they started to fall apart. And even with all her wealth, her kids went to school in rags, secondhand clothing and worse. In the winter, she lined her son's jacket and shoes with paper. Aren't you supposed to burn it for warmth? Here you go. Just cause it's really cold today. I only have millions of dollars. Yeah, I'm going to put the newspaper in you. At this point, her income was in the mid six figures. Okay. Which was huge for the time. Yeah, but still, I mean a lot of that's going to paper for the students. That's right. But she still fought with everyone over money. She kind of sounds annoying. She began to fight with her husband and in-laws as well as her servants and neighborhood shopkeepers. So everyone. She haggled for everything she bought or for services performed. Oh God. The shopkeepers in New Bedford hated her because her filthy hands would touch their goods and ruin them. She'd like pick up the... Why isn't she washing her hands? Cause she's a fucking monster. I don't know. Cause she just wants to be dirty? Well, water costs money. But your clothes, I mean, okay. When her son Ned was nine, he injured himself while sledding. Little paper will fix that cut. Hedy did not want him to take him to a regular doctor because it would cost so much money. Of course not. So she took him to a free clinic for the poor. Perfect. Her biography said she was then recognized and forced to pay. Oh my God. No, I'm not her. Nope. Look at me. My clothes are falling off. But the leg was not well taken care of. She tried other doctors and home remedies, but the leg did not heal well. This meant Ned grew up with a limp, which got worse over time until finally the leg became gangrenous when he was a teenager and had to be cut off. Fuck. Hedy. Ned used a cork prosthesis for the rest of his life. Cork? Yeah. I guess they made him out of cork back then. Man. It's a little bouncy, right? It's a little... All of it is a little strange. Cork? It just feels... Yeah. It's a little bouncy. Yeah. As far as swimming is impossible. Better than just like wood, I would think. Better than wood? Yeah. I think less stable than wood. Well, the wood would be heavy. I feel like I could kick a cork leg in half. Well, okay, so he's probably not doing kickboxing and stuff. He's probably just walking around. No, I'm going to do it. I'm a guy who hates him. So you're just going to walk up and kick a guy with one leg. Hey, Ned, how's that? Oh, boom, right through it. You sound like the worst person in this story. Let's dollop about me. By hypothetical mean this time. Hedy was fucking rolling in the cash. She would hop on a train to New York City and play the stocks. The men of Wall Street could not believe what they were seeing as this filthy rag-covered woman took large positions on the unregulated stock market. No woman had ever operated on the stock market before, and certainly not a filthy, dirty one. She sounds like the weird park lady from Home Alone 2. She made very conservative investments, had substantial cash reserves to back up any movement, and she had a very cool head during turmoil. She bought railroad stock and kept making money. Okay. In 1885, the financial house, John J. Cisco and son collapsed. Hedy Green was the largest investor, and it was revealed, unbeknownst to her, that her husband, Edward, had been the firm's greatest debtor. Oh boy. She was putting all her money in and her husband was taking it all out. Oh boy. Oh Hedy. It turns out the firm had used her wealth as the reason they gave Edward his loans. So he's like, yeah, prenup. Exactly. Upset by this turn of events, Hedy withdrew her securities and deposited them in another bank. Edward had lost almost all of his fortune, but Hedy would not help on them all, and she would not pitch in to pay for the household needs. Oh gosh. Edward moved out. She then took her two kids and moved to New York City. By now, she was less into stocks and a lot more into buying mortgages. She seemed to really enjoy buying mortgages on churches and foreclosing when they couldn't make the payments. Wow. She said, really, just a sweetheart. America's sweetheart. It's not much different than what goes on now. She's Trumpy. She's way ahead of her time. She's a little Trumpy. She was also now lending money to bankers and brokerage houses. And she didn't like paying taxes. Hey, welcome aboard. Which rent the tax collectors were always after. In her mind, there was no reason to give the government any of the money she had made. I'm listening. Classic argument. I'm still here, aren't I, Hedy? She put her dog's name on the front of her apartment so tax collectors would not realize she was living there. I told you. This is where Mr. Sparks lives. Sparky. Sparky. It's Sparky Green. It's where Sparky Green lives. She rented rooms in Hoboken, New Jersey across the river from New York City, which protected her from New York tax collectors. For years, she lived with her kids in flats on the other side of the river. The flats had no cold water. I didn't realize that was an option. But she wasn't washing herself, so... No cold water? No. Sorry, no hot water. Oh, okay. I was like, what? Yeah, so she's not bathing, is that right? No, yeah, so that's fine. She also did not turn on the heat or rented places without heat. Okay. It's just cool in New Jersey. Well, to be fair, you've already got paper in your shirt. That's true. So you'll be fine. Her rent was never more than $22 a month. So she's... Okay. She's conservative financially. What do you want? Come on. But she went... Still had to work every day on Wall Street. She ate mostly pies that cost 15 cents each. All right. So what is happening to this woman? She's only eating pies? It's like the dream of a seven-year-old. No, I think like meat pies. Oh, she's eating like shepherds. The smell. No bathing on a diet of meat pies? Oh, God. The gas that came out of her. A lot of traveling, it sounds like, too. The New York Press started following her wherever she went, and they gave her the nickname, the Witch of Wall Street, because of her look and her horrific smell. The New York Post has done it again. In... Oh, wait. So she did most of her business at the offices of the Seaboard National Bank, surrounded by trucks and suitcases packed with papers. She didn't want to rent her own office because she didn't want to pay for it. So what's her deal? She just... She just wants... I mean, she just wants as much money as possible. She doesn't want to spend? She doesn't want to spend anything. It reminds me a little bit of my mother, like who is... It really does, like the spending part. My mother would never turn on the heat as a kid, and one time my mother, walking down the street, found a bag with a fresh head of lettuce in it and took it home, and I made her throw it out. Yeah. I can't. She also found a spoon on the ground once on the streets and took it home and washed it. No, absolutely not. So I'm just saying. She sounds thrifty. Hedy Reynolds. Hedy Reynolds. In the 1880s, she became a hassled name across the country as Hedy became synonymous for miser. Really? Okay. Sure. In the summertime, she smelled so bad... That's fun when you're getting like... You're like, what are they saying? Hedy. Why? Oh, nothing, Hedy. Shut the fuck up. Shut the fuck up. In the summertime, she smelled so bad that people working in the same bank office where she rented her desk, or didn't rent, but had, would do everything they could to stay as far away from her as possible. Her long black dresses were decades out of style and they weren't even black anymore. They had turned a shade of green and were ragged from wear and filth. Her fingernails were covered in crusty dirt. She had a hernia but didn't want to pay for a doctor. Dave, enough. I'm turned on. Knock it off. She's got it all. And a hernia? Sweet bastard. She had a hernia but didn't want to pay for a doctor so she just walked around in pain for 20 years. I'm sure she was really cool about it though. The cost of the surgery was just $150 and even though she was horrified by the cost, she finally went ahead and had it done after 20 years. Then she stiffed the doctor. What? Shit. She's probably got a hernia from carrying all that filth around. But, Hedy liked the fame that came from the press. But doesn't she understand it's like tanning mom fame? It's like Octo Mom fame? Quote, my life is written for me down in Wall Street by people who do not care to know one iota about the real Hedy Green. I am an earnest, therefore they picture me as heartless. I go my own way. I take no partner. Risk nobody else's fortune. For I am Madame Ishmael, set against every man. Well she has a point but it's also why do you have to smell like shit? Right, there's no reason you have to walk around with dirty dirty hands. Nobody's not saying you're like a Louff and a Loner. You are those things. No this isn't misogyny. This is you being gross and you smell bad. Your hands are brown from filth. Nobody knows that when a dress gets so dirty it turns green. It's a bad thing. I mean that's, who knew? Uh, she was also known to be the richest woman in America. And that's probably the reason so many called her a witch. Yeah. Although the same man came running to Hedy for help when they needed money. Hey Hedy. She kept anywhere from 20 to 40 million dollars in cash always ready to be given out as loans. Where? Well in a bank or whatever. Oh but she had it like on the ready? Not like a suitcase but yeah if you wanted cash she would go grab it for you. That would be, that's about a half a billion in today's money. So she's just rolling with half a billion in her account. And she smells like a horse's ass. And she smells like somebody put a baby diaper inside of a baby diaper. Inside of a van. Oh this is inception of toddler poo. Oh gotcha. This is diaper inception. Diaperception? The city of New York had to ask her for loans on several occasions to stay solvent. I mean she smells. In 1907 there was a panic, a bank panic, and she wrote a one million dollar check to save the banks. She made sure her kids lived the same thrifty lifestyle. I'm sure they were happy. She spent money when she wanted her daughter Sylvia to find a man. Sylvia lived with Hetty until she was in her mid 30s. So nothing weird. Not weird but. Nothing weird. If your mom smells. It is weird. Your mom like the whole. It is weird. Imagine how bad the whole apartment stunk. It is weird. You move out. Yeah in your mid 30s? Or you move out in your 20s. Yes especially in this time too. Your mid 30s is not your mid 30s. Now she's over. Now she's done at that point right? Yeah. Like mid 30s. Done. She's gonna find you a husband. Here let mama fix you up nice. Let me just put a little shit on your eyes. There you go. That looks nice. Alright. I'm just gonna rub some of this sewage right on your neck there. Now rub your. Rub your wrist together with some of that poo. There you go. Mmm. I'm so proud. So she. You're gonna make some man very stinky some day. She booked several rooms at the Plaza Hotel to throw Sylvia a dinner. Eventually Sylvia did find a husband. Matthew Oster Wilkes who was 25 years older. Well okay. So he's. She's 35. And he's gonna die in about a year and a half. So he's 60. Perfect. But Hedy was okay with it and paid for an actual wedding in Morristown, New Jersey. Now when Ned was old enough he was sent to Fordham University to get a law degree. When he had gotten that she sent him to Chicago to manage her real estate in Illinois. She paid him a very low amount so Ned had to live in cheap apartments. But when he finally proved his worth in Chicago Hedy sent him to Texas to watch over the Texas Midland Railroad which she had purchased. Ned turned the railroad around. After children moved out Hedy kept moving from apartment to apartment trying to avoid establishing a permanent residence. Jesus Christ. At what age do you say uncle. Ned meanwhile really spread his wings in Texas. There he was more independent and had more control over the money which he had no problem spending. Ned was living the good life. Good for Ned. He became active in Texas politics and was made quote a colonel of the staff of a Democratic governor of Texas. Sounds like a easy position to tell people. He would be called the colonel for the rest of his life. Hey listen you're working on the railroad you're making some scratch you're spending it and you're called the colonel for the rest of your life right. Yeah. And you were raised in a shit box by a crazy witch lady right. Yeah you're doing fine. And he brought a lady with him that he met in Chicago. Mabel Harlow. She was a prostitute who he'd lost his virginity to. Look you they they say that love is in crazy places and you don't know. I mean it's is it strange. Is that your question. Is it sure it's a little strange. It is. It's a little strange that I was you go to a whore to lose your V and then you become that guy was like oh boy I don't know. I really think she likes me really likes. I think she really does like you let me put it in her. Oh boy felt so gooey. Go away don't say gooey gooey in there. I think I love her. I think I'm going to marry her. Oh God. Can you imagine proposing to a like. I mean he went back there and she was like do you mind if you just do it in the but because I actually get he's like that my love my love my love my love. I love you. Let me stop you right there my love. Hold up hold up on the but there'll be no need for any insertion for today I am here on the matter of love. So he brought her to Texas and live with her in a hotel suites. They went into business together. She brought in the girls and Ned brought in the customers. Oh wow. So he just it's all about making money. It is all he did to them. It doesn't matter how you make the money now. Right. Is he bathing. I don't know but I think he is. Yeah it feels like we'd know if he wasn't. Yeah and that doesn't feel like a genetic thing. No it doesn't. It's clearly some it feels earned. It's very hard. Hedy didn't worry as much that Ned was with a prostitute as much as she did that Mabel might try to marry Ned to get her hands on the family's money. Hearts in the right place again. So Hedy made Ned promise that he would not marry Mabel. But Mabel wasn't going anywhere. She was with Ned for the rest of his life. Hedy was no longer concerned because of the promise Ned had made. While this was all going on he became smarter and smarter about the family's business. He became quite skilled at protecting their assets. So Hedy realized this and brought Ned back to New York so he could oversee the finances and she let him continue his extravagant lifestyle. Ned lived in fancy hotels for a while then bought two townhouses on Central Park Avenue. He lived there with Mabel and gave himself the nickname art and then continued to call himself the nickname the Colonel. As he should. And you have a winner. Yeah. Hedy continued to work until she was in her mid 70s. She suffered a lot of strokes and ended up in a wheelchair. She also became paranoid. I heard that she actually didn't want a wheelchair though. She just wanted a unicycle they would taper to. Well she did. Yeah. She just got two wheels and a bucket. Yeah she got two wheels and a bucket and a mop and she just scooted around town. She also became paranoid thinking she would be kidnapped. Which was the rage at the time. Oh well okay. But not old ladies. Yeah I'm going to say the kidnappers after like day two will be like please get in the bag. Get in the goddamn bath. Don't you touch me with those fingers. She was always making detours to avoid kidnappers. Okay. When she was 77 she came down with pneumonia. The witch is near death the headline screamed but she wasn't dead yet. She made a comeback. But after the illness she moved into Ned's townhouse. He made her pay rent for the time she was there. Well it's payback time. Right. He just sit there and tap his cork leg. Yeah. Where's my rent money? And then she'd be like oh let me go get it and then she's gone. Yeah. God damn it. Did she jump? But she was very very clearly weakened from the battle with pneumonia. Hedy died on July 3rd 1916 at the age of 81 in Ned's townhouse. The Guinness Book of World Records said she died of apoplexy after arguing with a maid over the virtues of skim milk. Well look I mean obviously that's an important argument to get to the bottom of. I don't know if that's true but that's what the Guinness Book of World Records says. Skim is the best. You don't like skim milk. What are you out of your mind? Skim is the best milk. Her estate was worth 200 million dollars. Then? Yeah. What? To compare when JP Morgan died three years earlier his estate was worth 80 million. Holy shit. In today's dollars Hedy Green would have been worth 4.4 billion. You realize in today's world she would probably be running for president. Yes. And doing pretty well. People would be like I loved her. She was great and I'm not showering no more. You can grow plants in her hands. These radishes are coming up lovely. She had spent almost nothing her entire life not on herself not on her children. After she died Ned was finally able to marry Mabel though he did not make her sign a prenup although he did make her sign a pre-up that would give her 1500 a month if they separated which is a lot of money. Yeah. And Ned was not his mom. He liked to spend. Ned bought huge estates in Florida, New York and Massachusetts and he took care of a small group of private secretaries who were all teenage girls. You're not moving on yet. Private secretaries. Private secretaries. Very private. Come on. They were each given a hundred thousand dollar trust fund and sent to school at Wellesley but they would come and spend their weekends with Ned and Mabel in their Manson Manson in Massachusetts taking notes. It's kind of fuck harem. It is a fucker. It's a fucker. OK. Heady's daughter. So you just got to call it private secretaries. That's right. OK. Heady's daughter Sylvia Green lived in New York. Her husband died in 1926 and she moved into an apartment on Fifth Avenue. She used the upper floors to store all of her extra furniture. Jesus. Sylvia was a recluse. Neither Sylvia or the Colonel were affected much by the Great Depression. They still followed Heady's conservative approach and it worked wonders. The Colonel finally died in 1937 and Sylvia inherited almost all of his estate. She lived the life of a solitary weirdo until she died in 1951. Her estate at that point was worth an estimated 200 million. Sylvia just gave it away. It was given to schools and hospitals and charities exactly what her mother would have never wanted. And they're all buried in shoe boxes in Arlington. They're all buried in shoe boxes in Arlington. So they're just so she was just the cheapest, filthiest woman of all time. So that's the first female financial wizard in American history. Well, she sounds good. It sounds it sounds if you're like a man in that day and age and you're like against women doing well or having money, you're like, see what happens. That's perfect. They stop showering and fucking. Yeah, that's right. That's exactly right. I told you that's what happened to women who care about money. They turn into dirt carriers and they're they smell like mold. Look, she's a walking plot of farm. Nice green dress. You stinky witch. Fucking monster. Well, look, it sounds like, you know, it's like they say with with money comes stink. Do they say that they did? Maybe I'm thinking of something else. I would love to see some Wall Street female Wall Street stockbroker with just filthy, dirty hands. Oh, just walking in like when she was she walks in. It's like plumes of smoke are coming off of her like dirt dress. It's like pig pen from peanuts. Totally. Yeah. They're like, wow, she actually has stink marks. She's got like three flies that she's like, I tell these flies everything. These are my flies. These flies are my financial advisors. I clear my fly natural advisors. I got it. Yeah, they're the fly natural advisors. Dave, think about it, because if you put an L in finance, it's fly natural. And that's what those flies were doing to her. Yeah, we I think this could go on longer. We're ready to be done, but I feel like if people are listening, they're probably like, yeah, let's.