 Ladies and gentlemen, from the dollop, Gareth Reynolds! There he is. Stop, stop. Seriously, seriously stop. Stop. No, I'm serious. Stop. Stop. Stop. Well, thank you my dear. I'll take it. Wait, I didn't get that. I didn't get that when I came out. Thank you bro. Adorable. Do you want to say anything? Is there anything you want to say to the people? Yeah, you guys, when you vote. Trump, Trump, Trump. Remember the guy we all want. What is it? DT. What is it that Trump said the other day? What was his... I'm going to be so presidential you won't even believe it. The greatest quote ever. It's like, what? I mean, I wasn't in until you said that. Why it's amazing is because he says you won't even believe it. Like, he understands that we're all in this no way. I know, I look like a total fucking piece of shit asshole, but when I'm in there it's going to be crazy good. I'll change. You won't even believe it. I won't call anybody a cunt on Twitter. Now when I'm president. That's going to be great. He will. Look, I kind of want him to be president just to see what he does on Twitter. It's going to be so great. I don't know if you guys know this, but this is a... This is the doll. This is a bi-weekly American history podcast. Each week I read a story to my friend. Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. We brought... We're going to have a guest tonight. He's a guy I met a couple of years ago in Melbourne. Or Mub-Bum, as I say down there. And he's really... There's no right way to say it when you're here either. You try to bridge the gap. People are like, what just happened? You're like, I don't know. These people call Houston Street, Houston Street, so everyone can fuck off. Yeah. Houston. Yeah, no, Houston. So, I met him a couple years ago. He's a really funny standup. And now he's on The Daily Show, where he's also very funny. Ladies and gentlemen, Ronnie Chang. Thank you. Thanks everybody. Hey. And Ronnie is a listener of The Dollop. Yes sir. He enjoys the podcast. We won't hold that against him. Yeah, I love this podcast. It's great. You do? Yeah, I do. I love it. Tell us a little bit more about how great it is. Well, Dave, I don't know if that's fair. I love the album art. Last week's episode was really good. What's your favorite episode? Last week's episode. Like most avid listeners, the last is the best. But you know your podcast has hit cult status when your podcast has its own Wiki. That's when you know you made it. Do we? I guess. It's a wallop page. I hope if we don't, someone's going to be working on it tonight. Yeah, I'm pretty sure it has its own Wiki. I'm sure the name section is long and fucking weird. I'm not seeing- Gary, Gareth, Gareth Reynolds. Gareth. Yeah, I'm not talking about a page on Wikipedia. I'm talking about its own goddamn Wiki. Oh, it's a Wiki. Oh, wow, that's a whole different- Really hit home for her. She is. Shit, a whole different- Very struck by that fact. Oh my God. What? Bruce Willis was dead the whole movie? I'm so sorry. 1624. This one is almost so perfectly geared for Ronnie to freak out. Wait, for what? For Ronnie to freak out. Oh, Jesus. Oh, shit. He's going to be saying what the fuck a lot. That's my... Because that's one of his catchphrases. The Dutch arrived and settled in the southern tip of Manhattan. The Dutch? The Dutch. They were the first ones here in New Amsterdam. First ones in town. Just the tip. Just the tip. So it doesn't count, right? It just clicks a little bit, right? A little... That's why it's called doing the Dutch. All right. Okay. All right. All right. So 30 years later in 1657, the town's first street cleaning law was enacted. Oh, I know where this is going. To the sewer. Houses were forbidden from throwing, quote, any rubbish, filth, oyster shells, dead animals, or anything like it into the streets or canals. Jesus. So you're no longer allowed to throw your dead animals out of the window of your house. Well, I mean, that's fucked up. Now I'm just stacking them. We made a fort out of all the cow bodies. We just... We kind of leaned into it a little bit. They were also forbidden from tossing their human waste into the street or canals. There it is. Yeah. I mean, that really... At that point, you're just like, okay, we need a goddamn law. I mean, what is... But no, but to be fair, back in the day, wasn't that how you would get rid of it? You would have to throw it in the street or else you just... I guess. You end up sleeping with it. Just put your poop next to the cow carcasses. The human waste was referred to in the law as tubs of odor and nastiness. I need to use the tub. I'm going number nasty. Of course the law was ignored. Five dumping locations were created, quote, along the East River near City Hall, near the gallows by Hendrick Wilman, the bakers. Nobody's a buying my pies. Smells like a shit of pie. Why you got a dump of that? Smells like tubs of odor. It smells like a tub of odor. I'm going to go get some bread and throw our shit next to the baker. Can we get a dozen croissants? We're going to dump Ted's diarrhea over there. We'll be back. Just get them together. Then we'll go dump Ted's ill, ill odor. They use their garbage to fill the shoreline, build bulkheads, and stabilize pier foundations. With trash? With shit? Oh, the trash. Yes. Wow. So they're just using that as a grout? All their shit and garbage. Yeah, they're like... Use the shit grout on the bottle wall. Let's build some with it. Keep the Mexicans out. How are we going to hold this? Wait. How are we going to hold this pier in place? Start shitting next to it. Hey, guys. Go ahead. In April 1664, one of the town constables wanted to know what he should do about all the dead hogs. Quote, here and there on the street to prevent the stench. No one was like, we should get rid of that. Ah, fuck, the pig died. What are we going to do? Let the constable figure it out. All right, all right. What's going on here then? The powers that be told him to use, quote, the city's Negroes to collect and bury the same. How is that surprising to anybody that's listened to this podcast? It's not that it's surprising. It's just that it doesn't get any easier. It never stops. Just send the Negroes to clean up the hog carcasses. Jesus. Year. In 1694, after the British arrived, a tax was created specifically to pay the salary of a street cleaning supervisor. So we're getting somewhere. Yeah, I'm sure we are. It's called progress, gentlemen. It's time for the pigs not to be dying in the street. I'm sure there'll be something there to replace it. No. By 1700, about 5,000 people were living in Manhattan. Yellow fever hit in 1702. More epidemics hit throughout the 1700s. Malaria, smallpox, whooping cough, and measles. Syphilis? I don't think you know what an epidemic... Well, it's not contagious. You shouldn't get it from pigs. One time I did. I was just sitting there like I'm not supposed to fuck it. Well, I bought it for drinks. What do you want me to do? He told me not to fuck a dead pig. I was like, what? Go get a little snack, love, yeah? Yeah. The only thing out, you know. David Cameron did it. That was just a tip, right, for him? He just put his balls in. Yeah, no, yeah. He was doing it to be funny. It's totally different. You can fuck a pig for a joke. But when you really fuck a pig, that's in private. I feel super disadvantaged here because this is the only accent I can do. The American constables. Yeah, hopefully you get some Chinese characters coming up in this. Dave, even if you don't have one, just invent one. Anytime there's a Chinese character in the doll, it's just a guy going, don't kill me. Well, and we're both like, accent wise, what's our approach here? I feel like probably no, probably none. No, no, that's what I'm here for. The British self is beyond me. I can't do that. The city responded to the epidemics by paving the streets with cobblestones and making gutters down the middle of the street. Okay, that's something. In 1784, they decided to go full bore and hired three commissioners to enforce street cleaning laws. But still, people continue to throw their garbage and excrement in the street. They're just tossing it out the window or they're dumping it. You shit in your pot and you need to throw it out the window like a fucking gentleman. That's just crazy. Talk about umbrella times. That is... Yeah, right? That's the thing is how many people got hit with shit and pissed when they're just walking in? Fuck! Yeah. They probably treated it like bird poop though where they were like, that's good luck. Yeah. Gonna have a great day. You're like, I'm my dress. Oh, I'm covered in Tony. Sorry. Sorry about that. I ate a dead hog on the street the other night. The commissioners weren't working out though and in 1788, the mayor complained that they used criminals and vagrants to clean the streets, which deprived the quote, industrious poor of the means of a job. I mean, that's more than we offer now though. They'd be like, oh, a world where I could sweep shit. Oh, swoon. So cleaning garbage off the street was obviously not for criminals, but for the working poor. Yellow fever came again in 1798 by 18. Yeah, it's exciting. Wait, is that my cue? No? That's what you call your fans. Yellow fever's here. The Ronnie Chank fans are here. What's up, yellow fever? What's up? Hey, Dave, what was yellow fever? If you're listening at home, by the way, Ronnie is white. A very racist white man. This is horrible, but if you're listening at home, he's got those glasses on. It's like 1970, super fucked up. I'm dressed like Hitler also for those of you guys listening at home. Just wanted to make Ronnie feel at home, so I one upped him, went all in. By 1860... Dave's dressed like Barney, the dinosaur. I don't know any Barney sounds. I would have done one right there. Hi, hi, kids. Yeah, that's all right. It's not too far. By 1860,000 people were living in New York. The filth continued, instead of the epidemics. In 1832, a cholera epidemic killed 3,500 people. In 1848, another epidemic according to the New York Times, quote, members of the respectable classes, including even ladies. What? Women are being killed. What? So it's not just penis related. We thought you were immune because of your vaginas. Oh, foolish woman. So 5,000 people died in that one. And then the city built a sewer system. Great. Right? Right. Queens. Animals... Animals were a problem. The city took possession of 20,000 hogs and drove them to the wild northern part of Manhattan. Dead hogs. Were the Native Americans probably like, what the fuck is happening? We're done with them. We just... We're done. Cool, if these live near you, you can fuck them when they die. We'll drop them off at Thanksgiving every year. Welcome. Thanks, Indians. By 1850, New York had 748 places where there was an, quote, amount of animal matter undergoing decay. Wait, how much animal matter? 748 places. So everywhere. I mean... That's everywhere. That's everywhere. Yes, kind of everywhere. You turn a corner, you're like, oh, good God. In 1851, all bone boiling works were banished from southern Manhattan. Sorry, sorry. Yes? Sorry. Ronnie, why don't you tell the people what bone boiling is? Bone... What? Boiling. Boiling bones. Yeah, it's when you boil bones for soup. Everyone knows that. Yeah. He's a little off. Yeah. Bones were boiled to break down various components that were used in dyes, filtering systems, grease, and for fertilizer. And the odor was horrific. I mean, when you're trumping shitty hog streets odor-wise, they're like, oh God, just leave the hogs. Those bones. Now, at this time, people believed that foul odors were what caused sickness. Oh, people. Not too far off. Oh, I'm dying. That must have made life so complex. Oh, so fucked up. Don't go down there, you'll die. You'll get influenza. Over there too. This was known as miasma. Quote, pure air coming in contact in the lungs with millions of small blood vessels gives health and strength to every portion of the body. But if loaded with poisons, it bears disease and death to every portion of the human system. A wise God has made healthful odors pleasant to the senses and diseased ones disagreeable. Boy, he really planned out everything, huh? Finally got into the nitty gritty. The nose, like a friendly and watchful guard. You've always said the nose is the guard of the face. You've always said that. I always say that. Yeah. You call the face a castle and the nose the guard. And the mouth the moat. Keep going. The nose is alert both day and night. It's like, sense instantly in the air a dangerous smell and gives warning of its approach as that of a deadly enemy. What? What is happening? This is a doctor? Well, they know science. They understand the human body. Yeah, you've never been walking up mid-shit? It's terrible. The fuck did I do last night? Oh my God. So after bone boiling was banned, a city inspector named Dr. Alfred World White, who was not a doctor. Was he at least white? He created a system to handle the city's waste. He used a dummy partner as a front and began his plan to have a monopoly on the city's waste disposal. They picked Barron Island in Jamaica as the home of their plant. What? So they're just like, they're outsourcing carcass work? They're just going to ship all the bodies to Jamaica? All this, everything they're going to ship out there. It's part of Queens. Oh, Jamaica plant. Jamaica Bay. Jamaica. Oh, you were thinking Jamaica. Yeah. Oh, that was so stupid. I didn't even get it. And the truth is I got so excited. Just Rastafarians like, fuck it, man. Eat it. Keep pushing it, man. Keep them coming. We haven't even spoken to the Jamaicans. They just seem into it. They celebrate. They're making punch out of it. Yeah, the garbage is coming. Wait, what? Yeah, it was kind of, it was half. But look, I try. I mean, I give it a shot. So they picked Barron Island in Jamaica as the home of their plant, which would turn the city's waste into grease and fertilizer. Here's how bone boiling works. First carcasses were skinned and chopped into small pieces, then boiled in an iron vat. The boiling separates the meat from the bones and recovers the grease. The oil and grease were then sold in Europe and America. Bigger bones were charred and used in sugar refining. Bone sugar? The smaller bones, the smaller bones were cut and used to make buttons. That said, I love the smell of shit. Whatever wasn't used was tossed into the bay. Fertilizers made of organic matter were treated with sulfuric acid and sold to surrounding farms. Dead Horse Bay on the west side of the island was named for all the carcasses unloaded there. What did they name it? Dead Horse Bay. Oh, that makes sense. What should we call it? It's full of dead horses. And there's a bay. I'm out of ideas. I don't know. I really, I thought it would come to us in that moment, but let's just call it Clarksville. They didn't like differentiate the carcasses, right? Just put it all together? Yeah, just to be- Humans, pigs, horses. Yeah, all there. That's something Ronnie wanted specified. Yeah. Just wanted to show- Hold on. Are they separating the horses from the pigs or is it all together? Because I'm eating kosher. I don't eat man bone, so. Dirty dog. There's a lot of people here who eat man bone. And to them. God bless. A few Irish, Italian, and Polish immigrants arrived in America and were sent straight to Barron Island for work. For work. Based on their social status, the families would, at the top of the pyramid, sort bone. Then came the families that would scavenge metal or paper. And then on the bottom of the social heap were the rag pickers. Wow, yeah. Yeah, I remember this from gangs of New York. That scene when they were sorting through the shit and carcasses. He's a rag. It was important for the rag pickers to use their bare hands so they would get what was known as the feel of the garbage. Oh, it's good in the long run, but for the person feeling that feel, it's not good. And then there were the fish. Wow. Tons and tons of fish arrived for a reduction into fertilizer. This was the worst work of all, and so it was done by those at the very bottom. The black people. All right, he's black. It's okay. He's black. It's okay. He's a black guy. Thank God. Thank... Oh, because that was going to be... You're white. It's so awkward. That was going to be super fucked up. Yeah, make them clean fish. Woo. Trap, trap, trap, trap, trap. The school on the island got out early so the children could help their parents sort through garbage. The school? I go to shit you? It's awful. You get used to it. I go to dead pig university. Barren Island did not have a doctor or nurse. Oh, that's good, because when you're around all that shit, I'm sure you're fine. Get it in your scabs. Really feel the trash. Tommy, get in. This probably just guys... I can do it without looking, you guys. Tommy's going to bob for it. Tommy's bob ragging. Get the feel of it. Get the feel. Oh shit, yeah. Oh, that is some fucking garbage. Oh, you know what? I'm using the force right now. Using the force. You're really stirring it up, man. There was no electricity at no post office. Who the fuck would want to mail a guy on barren island? The only thing you're mailing is, come help me. Fuck. It had one store and four saloons. That makes sense. Yeah, for sure. I gotta get shit faced. Why? What am I going to do? Go to the store? Just go get another night cap. Store boring. It had five factories and the one room school house. Former resident, quote, we raised chickens and ducks for eggs. We did fishing and crabbing, but the factory was about one block away from our house and if the wind was blowing your way, there were horrors. Horrors. Not a bad odor. Horrors. And you just don't think of wind that much now. No. It's like, it's a little windy. You're never like, oh God, that's headed towards my home. Oh, sweet God. Close the window. Horrors are coming. It's going to smell like a pickled whore. That's awful. A pickled whore? That's right. Go ahead. You had a follow up? Where are they? Where are they pickling whores? I think the smell. I don't want to get into why I came up with that. There is a reason. The smell preserved them. Does it preserve the whore? No, but it's all the fish. I said I didn't want to tell you where I came from. There's a young lady who just went like this. And she's right. She's 100% correct. Patreon, darling, Patreon. Patreon, please. I didn't want to. From the New York Times. During 1858, the following animals were sent to Barren Island and worked up. And worked up? Worked up. That's what the New York Times said. Well, I'm sorry, but that sounds like... Like interrogated? What does that mean? Sounds like they're like, oh, we're going to fuck you so good. Close the door, Tom. 1,014 horses, 864 cows, 1,260 dogs. Oh my God. Oh, now you're upset. Like what the fuck? What happened to the other fucking nearly 2,000 animals that I just read? Oh no, the dogs, they're dead. It's not like they're killing the dogs on the island. They're not like marching them out there. Like, come on, you're going to Barren Island. Yeah, boy. Yeah, boy. Go get it. Go get it. Also dogs... Start the boat. I know in animal kingdom, I'd probably prefer death at that point. Yeah, they probably, yeah. Look, the man just made a scientific point. I love how nobody cares about other animals. Oh, not dogs. No. They're tail swag. That's just a key difference. There were 120 hogs, 152 pigs, 64 skinned cows. Yep, they took the skin off. I would think if you skin a cow, wouldn't you want to use the rest of it? Like why would you skin it and then be like, that's enough? Halloween costumes is all I can think of. I don't know if there's another option. Okay. 20 goats, 71 burnt horses. Why burnt? Why burnt? It was an accident. Well, it was an accident. You're not going to believe it, sir. All right, who keeps burning the horses? I said one in a million. We got another fiery pony today. I don't know. It just keeps happening. Random again. Anyway, take him to shit island or whatever it is. Throw him up there. Sounds like they died and then someone was like, what are we going to do with this shit? Let's burn it. And then they didn't realize how hard it is to actually burn a horse. It was partially burnt. Like nine hours later, they're like, boy, he is really cooking in there. It's a slow burn. He's starting to... He's going to burn. Hey, Jim, I'm starting to think this is a bad idea, setting a horse on fire. Terrible. Also, have you noticed the smell? It's not great. Not good. It's actually weird. Oh, God, the wind. The wind. The wind. The wind. Horse. Defecate. Horse. Defecate. Horse. Defecate. Horse. 29 calves, 10 sheep, two colts, one jackass, two bulls. I wore a sombrero to an office party. Kill him. Kill Dan. Kill Dan. Kill Dan. What am I, Baron Island? What am I, motherfucker? Jackass. Right there. He's such a jackass. Such. I'd burn him, but he's probably like a horse. I don't know how that goes. Going to Burning Man. 30 hours and one flaming fucking thing. So, two bulls, one ox, 140 cats. Oh, there you go. These were burned. And one fox. He was not one of them. One fox. One fox. One fox. Just for fun. Just for fun. You know what? It's like a cherry on a banana split. Look, I know you guys aren't having fun working here out on Baron Island, but I got you a surprise today. Is it food? A ticket out of here? Anything? It's a dead fox. Cut this fucker up. No. I would love to see my spouse. No can do. She smells like the horrors. There was a post office I could write to her. It's just, there's one store. Hey, you want to go to the saloon and have a beer? No. Yeah, fine. Yeah, fine. Fuck. Please empty your pockets of all extra bones. This is going to take a while. One hundred and fifty cargos of night soil have been taken from the city and sent to Baron Island, where it is converted into fertilizer. Do you guys have a question? You know, the truth is I don't think I do. I'm just assuming that's where the round table nights trotted. Ronnie? Or poo. No, I was just going to ask how long that took to accumulate, but I don't really want to know. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Four days. Four days. All right. Load the shotgun. Night soil is what is in chamber pots. Are you that shocked? Night, night soil. It sounds like the Bush administration came up with that term. It's not poop. It's not soil. Yeah. It's not a war. It's a democracy convention. Oh boy. Hey, where's the chamber pot? I got to make some night soil. Something's not agreeing with me. I might need to make some day soil. I got day rear. Diphtheria broke out at Baron Island. Why? What was that? Sorry, what was that? Diphtheria broke out. What's diphtheria? So diphtheria is, I believe it's an infection of the- The face?... throat and mouth, I think, and nose. I think it's like a... You know how they were saying that people get poisoned from odor? I think that's what it is. God damn these medical doctors. That's amazing though if you're just walking around one day like, do I look different? Because mirrors weren't everywhere. You're like, dude, it feels like everything's big. It feels like my face is bleeding from every pole. It's bleeding and big. Are my eyes bleeding? Do I look? I feel like I'm crying tears. And my lips hurt so bad. And the guard on my face has never been bigger. It really... Look at it. Dr. Boynton said that the disease was due to the disregard of sanitary precautions by the Polish families who lived on the island. It's the Pollocks. So any questions? None? All right, go clean up the dogs. Quote, the fertilizer factories are not half so conductive to disease breeding as the habits of these families. Wow. Dude, why have Polish people just been the scapegoats here for... Just always? It's amazing. Yeah, we just picked Poland to be the place we shit on forever. So they're stupid and do all the bad stuff. They know nothing of the rules of health. Most of the population here is going about with their throats wrapped in flannel and salt pork. It's a Louis Vuitton. Do you like my scarf? It's pea grease. And wool. They wrap the pigs. Yes? No, you go, sorry. So they're having throat issues. And so they get flannel and then they get salt pork from... It comes from dead pigs. So they take it from the thing that... They made grungy bacon burkas. Rolling around town. Oh, I've never felt healthier. Yeah, no, there's some acne, sure. Just a little around the face and neck. Yeah, just a little bit. I think it must be the tartan. I don't know. I don't think there has ever been on the dollop anything more horrifying than you walking up to a guy who has flannel wrapped around his face with pork. Just walking up to that guy going, oh God, time machine, please. How was your day, Bob? Hey, is my face swollen? I mean, they're probably getting that flannel from the dead bodies as well. That's true. Yeah, they're probably stripped of the rags of the dead bodies. Well, we skin Nirvana and this is what we have. Now it wasn't easy for the workers when they left Barron Island. Why? Thomas Murphy, who... He's Polish. Thomas Murphy, who worked on the island, was thrown off a train by the railroad conductor because the other passengers complained that his clothes smelled terrible. Wait. Okay, but the train stopped. Was stopped? I like to picture it moving, obviously. In my fantasy, the train is moving. It would be pretty great. Get out of here, stupid Polark. Go build a submarine with screen doors. They're so stupid. Really are just... Once again, I don't know enough about American life. I don't know enough about Polish people to make fun of them. Just growing up in Wisconsin taught me anything. It's that they wrote a book on how to read and they broke their arms raking leaves by falling out of the tree. Okay? There used to be Polish joke books. They were just joke books about how dumb Polish people were. Every country does that where in England they're like, oh, those fucking Irish are bloody stupid. Every country has them, but America, for whatever reason, landed on Polish people are just very dumb. Yeah, to me, they're all just white people. I don't know what... I don't know. In Trump's America, they will be. Thomas Murphy sued the Brooklyn Railroad Company for $1,000. Murphy said he didn't have a choice in bringing the odors and he had a right to ride the trains. A jury found for the railroad company... What could you... Do you think he bathed when he went into the fucking trial? Dude, he must have been fucking covered in cologne or whatever they had then, I guess. It was just dead pig. Little dead pig on there. That'll spice up the jury. Guilty? Or I guess not for me. They found me guilty of smelling? The judge ruled that although the railroad had an obligation to carry any paying passenger, it was not obliged to carry smells. But that completely steps on it. Will carry anyone but not the stinky. No, absolutely not. Not in my America. But he didn't smell. I'm not sure he did, but his clothes. It was his clothes. I think everybody fucking stunk. Dude, you probably lose perspective. It would be like if 90 smokers lived on an island and be like, I don't think I smell. And then they go on a train. They're like, people think I smell. What the fuck? This is shocking. I'll buy my cigarette after the show. That's a really good analogy. The railroad made it policy to refuse service to anyone who worked on Barron Island. So now they can't get out and they can't go anywhere. Although it wasn't much better in the city. Women and children from Five Points, Rag Pickers Row, and other slums searched the streets quote basket on the arm and sack over the shoulder, moving through the gutters and searching in ash barrels and boxes and overhauling garbage vessels, looking for bones, fish heads, rags, paper, wire, lengths of string. Oh my God. String. No, it's a spine. It's a spine. Another spine. Yeah. The first recyclers was great. This is the best recycling. What day? Wednesday night. I forget. What is skull night? And it's the red bin, isn't it? It is the red bin where you throw your bones. Okay. Also laces of leather, nails, horseshoes, cord, bottles, tufts of cotton. What was just worth they looking for? Give us that list. Just everything. It's got to be shorter. Just tufts of cotton. Tufts of cotton. How much can I get for this? And I've also got a lovely tuft of cotton. I'd love to. What about this? Barely used, sir. Barely used. My wife and I would love to walk out of here with a profit. God. Entire families lived under docks. I thought you were going to say they were also looking for entire families. Oh my God. It's the Sheffields. Put them with the fish head. How long have you been under all those bones? Half a rep. Entire families lived under docks. They were mostly Italians. That's not in there. That's not in there. It is. It's not in there. Yes it is. Everybody's staked out their place. I'm thinking we make a little Italy under here. Once again, they're all just white people to me. Hey, it's the best place, huh? You're just going to sit by the docks here and watch the time roll away. You're going to love it. Now I'm going to whistle for 20 minutes. Under the docks was a great location to live because that's where the garbage was loaded onto boats that were headed for Barren Island. We're going to get some good garbage. We're going to find a job to meatball. We're going to make a spaghetti out of cord. The med would stand in boats under the dock while debris rained down from rubbish carts moving across the piers above him. Hey, I got a great job. It's the rain of the prophet. Quote, the garbage is literally deposited onto the heads of these people who live, eat, and sleep under the dumping piers. Those people seem to thrive there. So why was it Pollocks? I don't even mean to say anything against Italians. I understand, but why weren't they like Italians? I mean, they live under the docks and eat shit. Just go, leave the Pollocks be. The Pollocks are walking around with flannel and pork wrapped around their face. Foolish Italians sitting under there in trash. Am I the only one who smells like Canadian bacon? Yeah, the Italians use that make into pizza. That's what they do. Yeah, they're down there. If we get the right amount of dough. A calzone with bone. A calbone. Hey. Jesus. I have seen the... This is still in the quote. I have seen the cart coming from Bellevue Hospital carrying wrappings from ulcerated sores. Cancer operations. Wait, they had cancer back then? I thought cancer hadn't been invented. It seems like it might've started at Barrett Island. Okay. What, they could cure cancer back then? Oh yeah. We lost that technology somewhere along the line. All manner of rank and filth along with kitchen garbage, chicken legs, heads of fish, ends of sausage, and those men scrambled for it and picked out the stuff they could use or eat. Do you want to...? Seagulls were like, what's the deal? That's our fucking... God damn Italians. We're supposed to be the bottom. Who invited the Italians? They're taking the heads of sausages. Those Polish people who put the pork on their face, they probably went through several items before they settled on the pork. They're like, cancer? No, it's not working. It smells bad. It really does not smell good. The pork skin's pretty good. The pork skin's all right. I think we've all landed on pork skin. I don't know. I'm using cat face and it's pretty good. Barry, we've asked you kindly to not tell us what you put in there. It's really good cat face. It's just fun to talk through a cat's mouth for an afternoon. Meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow. You know what I mean? I'm doing this for health reasons, not to have a good time. It's my way of honoring my pet. Now watch how big my tongue looks when it comes out of its mouth. Fun, isn't it? And the final quote from that. From this legend. Do you want to sit beside or have your daughter or wife sit by that animal on the streetcar? That's what he's saying about the people who live under the docks. Right around with one of them. In a streetcar. They're the animals. They're the animals. It's almost like the trash should start to pick them out of it. I found an Italian. Come over here, fish head. Bring it over. They're grabbing us. We're grabbing them. It's a whole tit for tat. So from the very first colony, garbage was tossed along the shore to extend the shoreline. Wait, yeah, what? To make the island bigger, they're like, let's just make a landfill. Land reclamation. Except it's horrible garbage. So they're, yeah. Yeah. Four boards are popping a lot. It's weird. Eventually. We built it on skulls and flesh. So I don't know what the... Eventually the piers were so filled with garbage that ships couldn't dock. Whoa. So they just kept moving the dumping area north and north and north again. And that's how Manhattan was built. Until 1883, when more than nine ships ran aground on garbage. Shit ho! Oh my God. Well, sir, we've hit a bunch of skulls and shit. We should probably port here. It's not on the map. No, nor should it be. Because we are monsters. We're caught at some sausage ends, sir. Anchor down in the sausage. The state of New York City, as described in a Citizens Association report in 1865, was horrendous. The Citizens Association of New York was organized to promote the welfare of the community and to benefit all classes in the city. They were volunteers who gave their time for municipal reform and public improvement. The association stated that mortality and sickness in the city occurred among the poor classes and sanitary improvements would greatly help the people. They believed there was a connection between being physically filthy and dying. Fucking idiots. Finally made that connection. Thank God. I love... Imagine what the Native Americans were thinking at the time. Oh my God. Just look at these fucking animals. There must have been tribes called eye rollers. Just going, yeah, these fucking animals. Fucking idiots. Living in your filth. You know what we've discovered? Shit and filth hurts. You did, huh? You did? That's awesome. I know. When I rub it in my eyes, it doesn't feel good. That's interesting. Well, get out of here and thanks for syphilis, you fucking animals. Well, we'll catch up later when we drop the pigs off. Good to see you engines again. God, you guys are a spicy people. We'll see you. Thank you. Take care. Bye bye now. I got to get back under the dock before the sun sets. Nice. Yeah. Or as I call it, payday. At West 39th Street, the steamship, the Algoquin, was moored and filled with boilers, vats, cauldrons and kettles, all constantly boiling blood, entrails, bones and the flesh of animals. Oh my God. Yeah. It created a horrendous smell that poisoned the air from miles around. From that stuff? Yeah. Can you believe that? It's weird, right? It's shocking. On 39th, 40th and 41st streets, there were massive hog butchries that killed 7,000 hogs a day. What? For no reason. That's insane. 7,000? Why? You know why? Because there's probably no refrigeration. Right. So you can't just keep me. You got to keep killing shit. But 7,000? Yeah, yeah, yeah. We're expecting a lot of orders, gentlemen. Kill first, reservations later. Okay? You know what, Bob? I think we should have just killed 5,000. My arm hurts. We should have killed like 5,000 today. My arm is killing me. I went ape shit in there today. I went 10K deep. I don't even know. It was a shit bath. Just slaughtering them. I felt like Thor. I just don't even know what happened. I know you asked for 5,000, but once you get to five, you're just like, I want to set the high score. Let's party. Let's do this shit. Let's dance, piggies. I'll uncurl those tails one way or another, you little fucks. Let's dance. I don't eat fucking bacon. Nearby were sheep slaughterhouses that killed 5,000 sheep a week and cattle slaughterhouses that killed 1,200 cattle a week. The blood entrails, heads, and refuse were carted down to the ship. There was a manure yard on 38th Street. We're like, we want to make the shittiest smell ever. I think if we work hard enough, this smokestack will be like taking a rip from an asshole. There's a carb on the bottom. The manure yard was 240 feet long and contained 1,000 tons of rotting manure. Hey, you're really fucking up my property values. What do you think it is? A thousand tons of just horse shit. They would just keep bringing it in. Sounds like Congress. I mean, those guys can't get any... Go ahead. Quote, at midnight, the night soil... The night soil. They're still saying that. At midnight, the night soil scow of Frank Swift, the night soil contractor. What have you been up to, Frank? Landed a great contract. I'm going to be fucking rich. I'm getting all the shit in Manhattan and the piss. And I take it out on me boat. I'm working at a bank, actually. The position is a teller, which is... Boy, you smell. Yeah, that's money, my friend. No, that's not money. No, that is not... I'm the shit man of New York City. Right. Well, it smells like you're eating it. Anyway, we have to... Would you like to come on me boat? Absolutely not. It's called the shitter. Titles are your strong suit. We will actually take a rain check. Poo check, as it were. Maybe I'll swing by the bank. Don't do that. Don't do that. No. You got chamber pots over there? No, no, no, no. Nope. Do not come to the bank. Definitely don't come there. If you ever want to take a shit, you come by old Frankie's. All right. Well, you know. You know what I mean? Yeah. You can shit right on my chest. All righty. Good to see you. You seem good. Because I love my job. All right. Well, anyway. I have no idea what you said. Okay. So he's the night sale contractor and he was discovered in the middle of the East River without any inspector aboard, dropping through the hinged bottom, its entire cargo. Wait. Wait, wait, wait. Yes. So he collects all... He's making the boat poop? He collects all the shit. He made the boat poop? Yes. He didn't take it anywhere and he just had the boat poop. He basically went off the dock and then the boat took a dump. All right. Well, a hundred feet. Far enough. Jump it, boys. The cargo soon rose and covered the surface of the East River from 95th Street to Battery. That's the whole fucking thing. Was this like the first time he did that? That's just the time he got caught. Which is a no. Right. There's no way. Because you figure he'd be like... After the first time he'd be like, oh, that wasn't a good idea. But think of how much more effective it would be if we had shit spills instead of oil spills. People would be like, no! We need to change something. Oil's fine. Fuck the penguins. My God! Oh, if a little penguin came out all covered in shit, people would be up in arms. I would welcome that penguin into my loving arms with a towel and I would clean him like a mother. Yeah, I would. The city's outdoor toilets had no ventilation or seat covers. Well, but why would you need ventilation like everywhere's shit? People would live in the toilets if it had ventilation. There should be a hole to let the fucking smell out or whatever. But then you're just walking into it. It probably smells better in the toilet. Yeah. I mean, you honestly are probably like, what are you doing in the... You better be shitting. I swear to God, I am. Oh my God. Sweet, fresh shit. Stale shit I'm living in. In most, the contents had risen above the legal mark. It's like the terror alert level. We're at Code Brown. We are not... Things are not good. Be on high alert. But it never goes down. It never goes down. No, it's a toilet. We are at Code Brown. It is very... It's at the rim. We are rimming it. We really are... We're overflowing almost. We're about to overflow. Be on alert when checking your bags at the airport. Along Greenwich and Washington, wastewater from the populous tenant houses are deposited in the gutters, while the contents of privies accumulate for months. Trucks, wagons, and carts were standing in filth of every kind, one to two feet deep, and the street was covered with old paper rags, ashes, garbage, straw, and general trash. On the west side, it was four feet deep. Think about how much that made you appreciate straw. You're like, sweet straw, my rock, straw. Four feet deep. Four? It's not a road. It's a road that Danny DeVito is like... Oh, the DeVitos are dead. They tried to leave the saloon. Morons. There is an alley named Cat Alley, which was lined with falling apart tenant houses. It was unpaved and incredibly filthy. Quote, the inhabitants are degraded, both physically and socially. All the children we saw were covered with dirt and disease. Their sore eyes, encrusted heads, and dehumanized appearance told the story of want and neglect. Oh my God. How did anyone survive? How is anyone still around? How do you like... Oh, I thought that guy was coming up. I thought he was coming up. That would be amazing. I thought he was climbing up on the stage and be like... I'm actually a shit baby. No, you've gone too far with Cat Alley. That is... What was... I mean, there probably wasn't child services, but if there were, they were like... No, there was none. Oh, he's not too shitty. His scabs are in his eyelids, but not his eyeballs, so we'll be back in six months. Have you thought about washing him? Fuck off. We have washed him. I'll do what I want. We've washed him in shit. I like to dip him in feces. Yeah. He's baptized. Feckily. Feckily. The father, son, and the holy sherry. Not everyone lived in buildings above ground. It was estimated 1,400 people lived in basements and cellars. What? Dude, why they're awing is because the idea that you're like, oh, to be able to step in shit instead of live under it. It might be nice in the cellar. You guys don't know, I can now read and that was the best place to be in Manhattan. Hold on. Yeah. We know where this train goes. When high tide came, the water would come... High tide. When high tide came, the water would come up through the floor flooding the basement. This is where they lived. High tide doesn't happen once a month. It's every fucking day. I'll get you stuff and hold it. The water's coming. Everyone hold dinner above your head. Hold dinner above your head. It's 530. Since the outhouses were usually higher than the basements, the contents would ooze through the walls. The worst portal guys ever. Shit's flying through. Oh God. Oh no. Back away. And ooze into the apartments. Oh, I have typed a question here. My question is, how are you doing Ronnie? This is Manhattan, right? Yes. Still probably cost $3,000 a month. They just show the place during the day. You'll love it. You'll love it. It's a high rise in a lot of ways. Come by a low tide. I mean four. You guys work nights or you more day people? Okay. Well, you'll still love it. Do you like water baths? If you work on like a moon cycle, do you have a lot of salted peaks sticking with you? That would be fine. Put one of those over the AC. That'll really spice the place up. It'll just, you'll forget you're living in a shit mode. You'll just. The citizens association strongly believed many of the bowel problems of the children as well as typhoid were the result of these conditions. They also believe many deaths could be contributed to the conditions and they were bringing attention to the situation because it was not like this in other cities. In most other cities around the world, the municipal authorities took care of the sanitary conditions of their city as they had concern even for the lowest inhabitants. Not New York. Or Flint. Or Flint. Nothing has changed. Oh, Flint. Or Flint. Quote. I didn't do it. Quote, but year after year, the nostrils of the citizens of New York are offended and their health and lives imperiled in order that a few heartless corporations and individuals may make money. The comfort and health of the city is held and kept subordinate to the greed of a few individuals for gain. I wish there was some sort of parallel to. Do you know what I mean? If only there was some way to contrast that with today. Well probably not here, but other countries you might be able to. Here we're good to go. But I mean to be fair, you have a few people. You don't get four feet of shit by just a couple of people shitting. That is the blame. That's a good point. That's a good point. Making it sound like four guys just kept shitting on the floor. It's like, get me the tube. Show them. Everyone is at fault here, right? That must have been what was so awkward about it. Because you were like, we're all just disgusting monsters. I mean, the shit is coming through my walls, but I got to be honest. I shit on the other side of the wall yesterday. I know that I shit. Rob, I know that my shit was on your walls last Monday, and again, I don't even know how that... I just don't know how it works. But all I know is that my walls bleed shit like the Shining. It is not... Have you seen the Shining? You'll see it in a hundred years or so, but it's really... It's actually a script I'm working on. And a script is things that movies will be based on. And movies are recorded productions. And productions are what we see in our local theaters. And we're all caught up. So now we have Washington taking all the money from corporations and doing the bidding of corporations for the disregard of the people. And back then, New York had Tammany Hall doing the exact same thing. Tammany Hall was a New York City political organization founded in 1786. It was the Democratic Party political machine that controlled nearly all facets of the New York City government, from the city and the county up to the judiciary. It helped immigrants, mostly the Irish, rise up in American politics. It used its resources to build a loyal, well-rewarded core of district and precinct leaders. And after 1850, the great majority were Irish Catholics. It is often today used as the greatest example of political corruption in US history until... Yeah, New York! Yeah, yeah, woo! Fucking did it. Tammany Hall, let's do this. Tak fucking long enough, I'll tell you that. Bloody poll-ocks. Tammany Hall. Tammany Hall. It controlled everything from the governor to the New York City Board of Audit, who oversaw the city finances. A large portion of the budget for street cleaning would find its way into the pockets of local officials. Street cleaners and sweepers would give their bosses and ward captains regular kickbacks for getting them a job. A job they didn't really deserve and didn't really care about. A job that wasn't being scrutinized by those above them because they were all getting kickbacks. And because of this, the city remained filthy. So, the guys on the street had to make up for the money they were kicking up to their bosses and they were employed by the street cleaning bureau. First the guys would come by with brooms and a scraper and push garbage into little piles. And then a guy with a cart was supposed to come by and pick up the pile and haul it off. But the cart guy would just take what he wanted and pass on what he didn't feel like picking up. He's like running through it like cones. He's like, yeah, I'm getting this. No, not that one. No, not this shape. Yeah. That's disgusting. I'll move that one. And there was a rule of the street, no pay, no removal. In this, this is particularly the case with hotels, dining rooms, and oyster houses. They would have to pay. What's with the oyster factor? Just oysters. They're like, I'm not feeling well. Had another weird batch of oysters in the 1800s. I don't know what to tell you. They're just, I don't think they're shelling them properly. I really, a lot of salt and sand and poo. Have you been to the poo house? Oh, the best oysters. But am I the only one who always spends the next day on the chamber pot? Making night soil. Yeah. Making night soil. In the AM? The morning hours? The morning hours. Night soiling. Hotels and oyster houses would have to pay 25 to 50 cents per day to have their filth carted off. When they did haul it off, it was taken to boats and barges for removal and they would often just toss it overboard in Long Island Sound. It really sounds like how we deal with plastic. We're just like, fuck it, dump it. We'll figure it out. We'll form an island out of it. I don't know. You seen Waterworld? Might be fun. Now this led to some horrific summer days at Coney Island Beach. Jesus Christ. As filth washed ashore. As people swam, dead composing animals. No. Oh my God. As people swam, dead composing animals, smelling garbage, rotting mattresses, anything you could imagine would float up with the waves. I'm going to swim through Pony Island. It's a bunch of horse skulls. Quote, certainly it is not pleasant while swimming to be borne down upon by the floating body of a dead horse. The Godfather. He's a coming after me. Yeah, he just uses it as a float. It'll be fine. He's still lying on the horse. Yeah. I think he'll be okay. Someone come help swim him back. His torso's cut pretty bad. Or to have the carcass of a cat strike the swimmer in the face. Nature's buoy. Race you out to that cat, touch the horse, come back. Probably a bunch of maggots on it as well. Just floating around. Get it in there. Oh, right. Yeah, flies and maggots. Yeah. Yes. Yes. By the way, yes. This is just biology. There's going to be flies and maggots. Yes, there will be flies and maggots. All right, Dave. You can't say no to biology. Yes. Dave. All right, there's no maggots. That was easy. I wish I'd known that about my name. No, no. You're not helping. Do you understand? The 99% and the 1%. Carrot. In 1881, to solve the filth problem, the independent department of street cleaning was created. And true to Tammany Hall form, it had little power. There was no oversight or review. A bunch of different agencies were now responsible for street cleaning. The street cleaning department, the public works department, the health department, the police department, and the mayor's office, which just led to passing the buck around. Eventually, the anger rose up so much against Tammany Hall. Turns out people didn't want to live in filth for that long. Shocking. From the New York Tribune in 1890, the condition in which the streets of this town have been kept under Tammany's administration demonstrates either that they care not a straw for the public welfare and is absolutely destitute of local pride or else that it is monumentally weak and incompetent. By far, the greater parts of the street have been dirty most of the time. Some have been positively filthy. It is useless to expect Tammany street cleaning officials to come to their relief. Mayor Grant has shown that vast appropriations for the department of street cleaning is not for the purpose of securing clean streets, but for the politics and the benefit of Tammany Hall. And each year, the budget for street cleaning would go up and the money would just go into the pockets of Tammany Hall. I love the idea of this guy writing this thing. It's like he's swiping away shit from his... Shit's just falling down. God damn it. He's like, fuck. Get me more brown out. Fuck Tammany Hall. Damn it. It's everywhere. At least they're in maggots. Should we use it as ink? Just thinking about streamlining. New York Times, 1891, but what can the people of this city expect? They have given their public affairs over to the unchecked control of Tammany Hall, which means lavish expenditure of public money with unsatisfactory results. It is. It really... Bernie Sanders. It is so... It really is just such a microcosm. Now this shit's just not literal. That's the difference. Now it's just bullshit, but it's not... For now. Yeah. Well, yeah. Truly. There will be a time where we're like, how far away is Jamaica? I wasn't listening. Is it Jamaica? Even the city's most wealthy citizens had had enough. J.P. Morgan, quote. I don't care anything about the mayor's politics. What I want is to protect the health of my family. My boy is sitting in shit. J.P. Junior's living in shit. Don't even get me on TD Ameritrade. That poor boy. When the Industrial Alliance tried to hold open air political meetings to discuss the situation, the Tammany employees of the street cleaning department would break it up by running street sweeping machines through the crowd. With people cleaning. Counting through cleaning here. You guys talking about how we don't clean? Look out, you idiots. Which side you park on? The anger finally built and along with all the other corruption helped to temporarily break Tammany Hall's grip on the city. In 1894, their candidate for mayor was defeated by a man named William Strong, who campaigned on an honest administration and choosing commissioners who were not Democrats or Republicans. Just saying. Strange time. Yeah, sounds really fucking weird. One candidate to head the street cleaning department stood out above all others. Colonel George E. Waring. You mean he was just like not submerged in the shit? He was like, hello. Give me your arm. I'm still alive. I'd love to help. Lost my pocket watch, obviously. Deep down, I tried to check the time. So many Italians down there. Have you been down there? Yes, they are actually making great pizza. It is. If you haven't lived till you've had their shit pie, it is. George E. Waring was educated as an agricultural chemist in Ranney Farming, Connecticut. He was known for designing drainage systems for farms. In 1857, Waring had been appointed agricultural and drainage engineer for the construction of New York Central Park. Finally. Yeah, it gets him to god-dust brains in this joint. It really took so long. So long to get someone who knew what the fuck he was doing. Because Tammany Hall didn't care. They wanted it filthy. But still, even then, it's just insanity. Tammany Hall wanted it filthy. They kept increasing the budget every year and being like, I don't know, we're trying. But people keep shitting. We'll figure it out. Tammany suggested blocking the sewers, which we think will work. He's a real out of the box thinker. If you meet Tammany, you'll be like, that won't work. But then you get in a room with him, you're like, that's a good idea. So he's bought a yacht, actually, Tammany did. So he's appointed for the construction of New York's Central Park, which was the largest drainage project of its time because Central Park was a wetland. He designed this. We know why. Well, no, not that kind of wetland. It was just actual water. It wasn't piss. Sure. It was water comparatively. You can walk through it. So it's water. This dude drained Central Park? Yeah, he created the drainage system that created the scenic lakes and ponds. Wow, what a hero. Yeah, he put the whole fucking thing together. But then the Civil War came and he decided to serve in the Civil War. Then the military rose to the rank of Colonel. Which side? Our side. Cool. The winners, the victors. I think we should have a holiday that celebrates beating them. Shit day. Could you imagine? Could you fucking imagine? They would start another war if we tried to have a holiday. That's the problem that they will march to celebrate Confederacy and we'll just be like, it was good. We won. So let's just keep working. Then they're like, we're gaining momentum. We're like, what's happening? It feels like there's shit in the streets. Are we? Tea party. Oh God. After the war in 1867. Easy, sister. After the war in 1867, Colonel Waring managed a model farm that used the latest agricultural practice, engineering and technology. So it was like little figurines. He was using clay pipes. And then the farmer will come over here, doop da doop da da da da, kiss his wife. A diorama. And he goes down here. Yeah, he's got a diorama. Then he'll milk the goat. Milks the little goat. You'll love it. And with real people, it might work. I don't know. I've been, I've invented Legos. If anyone's. He remained there until 1877 when he became interested in sanitary engineering. The city of Memphis, Tennessee at that time was a fucking nightmare. It had several epidemics of cholera in 1849, 1866 and 1873 and epidemics of yellow fever in 1867, 1873, 1878 and 1879. Over 5,000 died in 1878. The city officials believed it was due to the sanitary conditions. There were a lot of wells near outdoor toilets. We prefer the term Oriental fever. Yeah. Thank you. Sorry, I came too late. I'm sorry. Are you saying, are you saying you don't want to be called outdoor toilet? There were a lot of wells. Essentially. There were a lot of wells near outdoor toilets and it was all drained by a fetid bayou. A lot of buildings stood above standing water. The city board turned to Colonel Waring and he designed a system that separated sewage waste from stormwater runoff. What a hero. First idea. What if the shit isn't with the water? That's a wall I'm behind. Why wasn't his face on the $5 note or whatever? I truly, because as we've all learned through the dollar, Benjamin Franklin was not a president. The fuck isn't this guy on the hundo? Yeah. And tie a key to a kite on a storm night? Good Lord. Low bar. The new drainage system reduced the size of pipes required to carry sewage and Memphis' era of epidemics came to an end and now Colonel Waring was the shit. David. Mayor Strong. You were called the shit back then. It wasn't a good thing. He's the shit. Put a bag on his head and hit the horse's bottom. He'll be banished. He's on the horse. He's on the horse. Bag on his head. Slap the horse. So you're not sitting, you're not, because. Don't leave him here with a bag on his head. Inspect the horsey. And then the horse runs off and he's just sitting there. And he's just sitting there with a bag on his head. This is awkward. Then the horse catches on fire. Oh, this will take 30 days. Good Lord. Give them to the Italians. They'll make breadsticks out of them. Oh, when they come out from under the docks, there's going to be hell to pay. Mayor Strong met with Colonel Waring and asked if he would consider the post. The Colonel said under one condition. I get my own way. You can remove me, but you cannot interfere with me. So he's a fucking badass. So after years of living with dead horses and human shit all over the streets, the city of New York had a John Wayne type motherfucker who was about to take out the trash. And by the way, a few years ago, I was listening to a Dodgers Mets game and Vince Scully was meandering as he always does. And he's talking and he goes, I remember when I was a boy, there was Oregon grinders and little monkey would want to run around. And sometimes we just walked down the street past a dead horse. And I was like, what the fuck did Vince Scully just say? And he never went back to it. And I was like, what the fuck just happened? It turns out two strikes. Yeah. I mean, it turns out that's exactly right. And if you go, I'll put up the pictures. There are pictures of kids playing this dead horses. It's fucking crazy. I remember when I used to wait around and shit and ponies as a boy, full count. I think you want to throw the fastball on one like this. My Italian people used to live under ducks and diarrhea when I was a boy. And ball four, take your base. I've always loved our public sewer system. How about them Polos? Well, how about they up to the plate? So Waring was appointed to head the street cleaning of New York. This is the general, right? The guy who fought the- The Colonel. The Colonel who fought the Confederacy. Yeah. And came back to New York to continue to fight against human filth. That guy? Yeah. And Ronnie. He's like, look, I've already beaten horseshit once. Ronnie just wiped the entire South off his possible tour. I'm just joking. I don't even know where the beef is to be honest. I'm not from America. It's not great. I'm like slaves. So. Oh, so they deserve that right? Cool. Yeah, it's a real beef. Real beef. Yeah. They were having Confederate flags out of congressional buildings up until eight months ago. When a black woman had to crawl up and tear it down and they all went, that's wrong. Yeah. Yeah. The slavery wasn't. All right. Don't worry, Dave. I know. I just heard. Leave her be. Leave her be. I think there might be some pro-slavery people over there. Leave her be. I come here to listen to stories about slavery, not shit. Brad poop matters. Woo. A little too pumped up. He quickly made it clear to the employees that any worker who used his broom, filled his cart, dumped the load and went back for more would keep his job and the others wouldn't. Their job had- Meritocracy. What? It's a real meritocracy. Bring the shit back or you're not coming back. Yeah. Their job now had nothing to do with voting. It was actually about doing the work and if they didn't, they'd be fired. Warring reconstructed the department into a military style order. That's so great. Gentlemen, we're going to clean up a bunch of shit. Any loser who doesn't like shit, get out now, boy. You raised an army. He raised an army. Yeah, he really did. Yeah. He raised an army against the shit. The shit army. Yeah. The city was divided- Don't even get me started on your camo. The city was divided into sections. Employees attended a daily roll call where they were assigned specific streets. They reported their progress or problems to the foreman. The foreman reported to superintendents, the supers to chiefs. Anyone with a rank above sweeper or carter was an officer and was expected to make decisions, give orders and be obeyed. Boy, I'm going to stop being a carter. Make my way all the way up to sergeant. It's becoming a little megalomaniacal. How do you pronounce that word? Megalomaniacal. Yeah. Sorry, it's English, not my first language. Sorry. He's going to put all of his workers in uniforms, white pants, white jackets. Dude, is he just hilarious? Yeah, are you going to wear all white? It's going to be fucking hilarious. Go swim in shit, fucking idiots. No, but then you can tell who's done their job. Track progress. You can track progress. Yeah, you didn't look a little cleaner. Bishop, you are very shitty. What a day, Tom. It's just your boots. Interesting. Interesting. So they also had tall white helmets. Tall white helmets? Yeah, big tall white helmet. Like stovepipe helmets? Like you don't know what's coming. They're fucking just beastie-boying the streets. Yeah, totally. The street cleaners became known as the white wings. Waring started the operation in one of the worst neighborhoods. He said he'd clean up five points, and if that didn't work, they may as well give up. He put two superintendents in charge and told them to do whatever was necessary to keep the streets clean. Even get rid of the five guys if you have to. I'm telling you, he's becoming a little bit, you know, he's getting a little bit controlling. Within two weeks, five points was a different place. Totally cleaned up. But this was the battle for New York. He said, like, this is it. If we can't do this, it's over. We must all just go. We can't do this. It's a toilet. It's a toilet. We can't do it. Flush it. I'm done. I really, I think this is it. This doesn't work. We're all going to Philadelphia. It's over. Philadelphia also, bad news. It's not. Wearing head carts follows sweepers and no piles of debris lingered. His wife devised a wheel metal barrel that could also carry brooms, bags, and shovels called a carry can. And it was used in New York until the mid 1980s. Yo. Wait, wait. This dude was killing it, man. He was like organizing them, giving uniforms, like inventing shit, inventing techniques. A carrot can? Carry can, not a carrot can. Carrying can. Carry. Okay. Did you think they were going around with a can full of carrots? All right, boys. We're going to clean up this city. Everybody grab a can of carrots. Be very, very quiet. Mr. Fudd, you've been warned. That is a carrying kit. Oh yeah. I just put a bunch of carrots in it. Don't upset the web. Two weeks in a wearing's term, four inches of snow fell at night. By 5.30 in the morning, workers were clearing it, 3,800 men shoveling. They had the exact same budget as Tammany Hall, but now the streets were clean. Though he did manage to raise wages to $60 a month, twice that of unskilled laborers were normally getting paid at the time. He also cut their workday down to eight hours, which was less than the norm. The Colonel started the juvenile street cleaning leagues. Compete. It's like a game. Who gets the most points wins a new sock. They were clubs that taught kids how to be, quote, the eyes and ears of the department. They're fucking trash narcs. They're the nose of the department. The eyes for watching people shit. Keep this between us. Wife had a rough time. We ate under the docks again, which is just don't get the pizza under the docks. I don't know, but that's where the only pizza restaurant is. Not good. So the kids would tell adults what to do and tell on them if need be. That's what Bernie's doing. Sounds legit. By the time the Colonel moved on, there were 41 leagues and about 1000 narc children in the city. He took a shit. Oh, you little goddamn bastard. I didn't. After a year, the Colonel threw a parade. The entire department of street cleaning work force, 2200 men were there. They marched down Fifth Avenue in tight formation. And it took over Tammany Hall. With their white uniforms. Amazing. We're not ready for all the species, sir. It's parade. With their white uniforms, the sweepers held brooms over their shoulders like rifles. So they were like a musical almost? The first stomp. Yeah. Well, we're very, very sick of it. We're gonna go and sweep your shit. Yay. Absolute power corrupts. Absolutely. This dude. True. There were 10 marching bands and parade floats. The Colonel led the parade in his military dress uniform and his white sweeper's helmet. All bottoms obey me. Three years after he started the job, Tammany Hall was voted back into power. Because... Because us. Just hear me, Americans are fucking stupid. He's a good Christian man. But the war from Filth was over. Tammany Hall could no longer claim there wasn't enough manpower or the budget was too small to clean the streets. They should have called that a butt shit. Keep going. I don't get it. You'll get it when you listen back. Once you listen back, you'll be like, whoa, what just happened? You really... You really... New Yorkers now expected to live in a clean city. Well, there you go. When did you guys get rid of that? But of course, it was Tammany Hall. The New York Tribune, December 29th, 1898. This is what, a year after they're back in. Wind and dust make life wretched for pedestrians. Dirt left in the street caught up by the gale and whirled about in blinding clouds. Inconvenience is due entirely to the inefficiencies of Tammany Street Cleaning Department. The thick layers of dirt and filth, which Commissioner McCartney permits to encrust the city streets, were yesterday caught up by the wind and churned into the finest of dust until at times the city was enveloped in clouds of dirt particles that could only be likened to the sandstorm of a desert. New York is back, baby! President McKinley appointed Colonel Waring to the American Army of Occupation in Cuba to suggest how to improve sanitary conditions of Havana. There he contracted yellow fever and returned to New York where he died in October of 1898. Yeah, Oriental fever, please. Please. So you guys killed him. I don't think that's on Ronnie's doorstep. Oh, he died in the end from... We brought you here to answer for this. Sorry for killing the king of your shit. I don't know. All hail king shit. King shit. Man, you're awesome. Sire. Yeah, well that explains why the Statue of Liberty looks like that. She's trying to hold the torts above the shit. By the way, in the long run, she will be right. She will be like, mon, my life, please, just pay attention to this shit. Then in 1906, a reporter from the Los Angeles Herald visited New York City and marveled at the clean streets. How did they do it? Quote, if the police see a man throwing a banana peelings or paper on the street, they arrest him. Well, he's obviously a cartoon character. I think this should be done in Los Angeles. The only person they're arresting is Shaggy. They started just arresting people throughout shit. And then that was how they cleaned it up. Yeah, man, I come from Singapore, man. That's how we roll. Yeah. Yeah. The police bring it. Barron Island was connected to the mainland in the 1930s by landfill and lost the name Barron Island. Robert Moses condemned it to build the Marine Bridge Park and gave residents 30 days to leave. All their cottages were bulldozed. He bulldozed lots of slums in the city and dumped the remains at Barron Island, expanding the shoreline. He then covered it in topsoil. For 70 years, the garbage has seeped into the surrounding water. Thousands and thousands of bottles, garbage, broken and intact and other litters are all on the shore as well as chunks of horse bone. Now covered in topsoil. Now covered in topsoil. So enjoy your city. It is now known as the Gateway National Recreation Area. Yeah. Yeah. That's full of just fucking horrors. Water quality is routinely tested, but the results are not given. Hey. Hey. Why? Why are they not? Why are they not? Forget about it, right? Hey, what are the results? We gave you all that water. Did you test it? What are the results? Forget about it. It's fun, but we actually, we paid you guys a lot of money. We paid- Forget about it. We paid you a lot of money. You want to go to Barron Island, motherfucker? Sweet God. Forget about it. Back in the good books. It is estimated that 30% of New York is built on garbage. Are you going to throw it out? Yeah. Your city is fucked up. Why the fuck were there so many horses? Dead horses or just horses? Horses- Well, that's how people got around. Yeah, but there's still- Sounds like you could have surfed on poop. Well, you couldn't drive a wagon through the streets because- What was it, like a thousand horses dying a day? A week? No, I don't think it was a day. Well, a butcher was killing 70,000 a day. No, no, a week. A week. A week. Oh, well, regardless. He's like- So, 1,000 a day. They all had a comment. I thought they wanted a party sub. Turns out they just wanted a six-incher. Well, to Jamaica we go. Yeah, if everyone in the South was listening to this, I actually don't know anything about American history and I'm under a lot of peer pressure right now. Also, you'll be at Helium's in Birmingham. I just got here in September, so my English is also not very good. They have a very rich history that you'll enjoy hearing about. They're proud of it. Yeah, it's cool. That's nothing to be ashamed of. It's smart to use your garbage to reclaim land to make the city bigger. That's a smart thing to do. I'm not pandering. Sun never sets on the American trash pile. Also, we ended that story as though everything's awesome now, but it's like, hey, we still have garbage every single day. Where the fuck does that go? Yeah. It probably peaked and is not as good as it used to be at this point. So, you go out there, I mean, you can see like a huge trash pile. It's a great town and I'm having a lot of... Wasn't there a long time ago, this giant trash, like a boat, right? And they couldn't find anywhere to put it and it just kept going from place to place. It was just New York trash and everyone's like, we don't want your fucking trash. Ship it to Detroit. They'll love it. We've kind of made them the rug we're sweeping things under now. The Detroit is basically the people living under a dock. Really? Detroit? You guys just went aw. Detroit. Go buy a house for negative $50. Hard to Motown. All right. Thank you guys. Yes. Thank you. Thanks for having me. Thank you, Ronnie Chan. Thanks for having me. Thanks so much. Very kind of you to have me. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Thank you guys. And we'll be selling posters and signing posters. We'll be right out there selling posters. Thank you. It's going to be different living out here. Don't let your uncle or your cousin get you into any kind of shit. Now you hear me? Cop's on ground. Can't nobody get me in trouble. Run back and see it this time. Since you're gone, you're going to bring your black ass back home.