 Hello, welcome to the toilet. This is American History podcast. Each week I read a story to my friend. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. You just gave me notes on how I did our intro in the last one. What do you think about your performance there? I think I did one and one. My introduction was in one of our famous characters. What of our famous characters? And who is that person? That's old age to English woman. Old lady gimlet. Old lady gimlet. We're also selling old lady gimlet posters. God, you want to look at a dude? I'll do one bummer. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling podcast. Okay. You are queen fakie of made up town. All hail queen shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I said done, my friend. This podcast is brought to you by our subscribers on Patreon. I want to thank each and every one of you, you guys are helping us out a lot. And we appreciate it. If you want to donate, become a subscriber or whatever, you can go to patreon.com, the dollop and you will find us there. We are also an All Things Comedy podcast. We are on the All Things Comedy podcasting network. You can go to allthingscomedy.com and you'll find a lot of other really great podcasts on this network. They're fun. Yes. April 5th, 1939. You want to say? Nope. I just want to get shouted at. Go ahead. No, say it. April 9th, 19. No. That would be a fun game too. You say the date and two sentences later, ask me what era we're in. April 5th, 1939. Okay. April 30th, 1978. William Post was born in Erie, Pennsylvania. He had a difficult life. His mom died when he was eight years old. Most common thing of all the dollops. Always. You better savor the flavor with your parents. They're going to be gone by the time you're nine. And instead of caring for him, his dad sent him his sister Patty, his brothers Ed and Jeffrey off to an orphanage. Cool move. Well, look guys, mom's gone. Dad's gone too. This concludes our relationship. You know the deal. One goes, the other goes too. Oh man. I would have stuck it out, but then she didn't make it. So bye bye. Great to meet you guys. It's really good to meet you. Ed, you were nice. You were a good one. I had a lot of hopes for you. My name's Ted. Okay. Bye anyway. Bye. You can name yourself whatever you want. You're starting over in an orphanage. Fuck you. Reset. You know what I mean? Bye. The kids kicked around foster homes and juvenile facilities. They were also raised for a little bit of time by their maternal grandparents. Now, known as Bud, William joined the army. Then most of his life, he drifted from dead-end job to dead-end job. He worked as a spray painter on pipelines, a laborer, a cook at a carnival. Always fun. I mean, that's... How do you guys like your clown meat? Medium? I'm a clown. Yeah. Yeah, we're serving you. What? Yeah, you guys kind of don't really serve much of a purpose. Come on. Happy Nipsey the Clown. Yeah. See, it's like people just want to see lions and shit. So we're going to start grilling you guys. Happy Nipsey the Clown. Okay. You know what's amazing is how many of you guys I could fit into one ground beef burger. It's sort of like a clown car. I told you we should join the service. Never a carnival. That's what Dad said. All right, get on the grill. At one point, he served a 28-day sentence for passing bad checks, which he said was, quote, to feed my family when I was out of work. Well, that's an excuse that people aren't going to buy. The classic he came to a career was a long-running job with a traveling circus. He really just went into that life. Jesus. Slippery slope. He drove a truck for the carnival all around the country. He was very excited when they gave him a promotion to run the Tilt-A-Whirl. Oh, that is so sad. Because coins would fall out of people's pockets when they were on the ride. Oh, God. How did you make the saddest thing sadder? And that was extra money he could take home. He got excited about his promotion to the Tilt-A-Whirl because he could get like he could ground score change. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. That's pretty sad. It's pretty fucked up. Also, if you're in charge of the Tilt-A-Whirl and your job is to keep people safe, that almost it bisects a little bit with the idea that you can do whatever you want to get people to shake change. If you have a little control, you can make the thing go 30 minutes and really just like fucking shake it. Yeah. Sir, I think the ride's broken. My recommendation is to never get on a ride at a carnival. The idea that I've done that many times. Yeah. How are we alive? How was anybody alive? How are we alive? Bud did manage to get married five times. Okay. And crank out 10 kids. Jeez. Nine of those were from one marriage. He had numerous run ins with the law. He liked to drink. Okay. By his mid 40s, he was alone and broke. One of his daughters said, quote, he was nobody. He was nothing. That's tombstone material. He lived in Erie. He lived in Erie. It's not a great view. I'm in Erie. No, not the bet. Not the not the baby. It's not terrible, but it's okay. He lived in a roach infested apartment for three hundred and four dollars a month, which he got from Social Security and disability. That seems expensive. Oh, no way. He got three hundred forty month at Social Security. Okay. He lived. I'm sure that roach invested part was like 100. Yeah. In 1987, he received a plaque from the city honoring him for rescuing a three year old boy from a burning building. Okay. So probably drunk. Yeah. He was just looking for whiskey. But the day that changed his life came when he had two dollars and forty six cents in his bank account. He pawned one of his wedding or engagement rings. He got back for sixty dollars and then he bought sixty dollars worth of Pennsylvania lottery tickets. Oh, dear. He must have made some sort of deal on rent because he gave his landlady and car pick twenty dollars worth of tickets and kept the other forty tickets for himself. Okay. So he paid his rent and lottery tickets or bought time getting kicked out. Okay. One or the other. Right. Yeah. No, they pro rate lottery tickets. That's how it works. I don't have the rent, but I do have four. Jack's a wild one of his was a winning lottery ticket. The jackpot was worth more than thirty two million dollars. What? At the time, it was the second highest jackpot in state history, but he had to split it with another lottery winner, which turned out to be a group of employees from the Westinghouse Electric Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory Laboratory in Pittsburgh. So Bud's total would be sixteen point two million dollars, which he would receive in twenty six annual payments of four hundred ninety seven thousand five hundred ninety three dollars. He had three dollars in the bank. Yeah. And now he's got a half a million. He called his daughter drunk so many times. It'd be nothing to nobody. He called his daughter drunk so many times over the years and complained about life that when he called her and told her he had won the lottery, she thought he had been institutional once. Put the doctor on, Dad. Put the man in the white coat on. Now I'm a millionaire. All right, Daddy, I love you so much. Please put the doctor on. I love that. That's the jump. Not that like he's crazy. No, he's in his. He threw himself a party at a fancy restaurant. Oh, man, did he? And ordered giant platters of seafood to show off. Well, this money's gone. What do you mean? He's going away. He called himself the black sheep of the family and wanted to show them all that he was somebody now. I love it. It is. It is so fucked up that money is that important that that can make you be like from one day be like, see, I'm somebody. You said I couldn't do it. And I bought a ticket and I bought a magic ticket. You said I wouldn't be anything and I went bought a magic ticket. And now somebody. God damn it. Come on, eat the crab. Eat the crab. Take it to the shrimp guys at the restaurant. His landlord bought a magic ticket like that. You like it took any thought on your end. I mean, the only thing you had to do is go, I'm going to buy it. No, you did nothing except being so broke that you were like, fuck it. Maybe this Hail Mary. At the restaurant, his landlady, Anna Carpic, said to one of his daughters, quote, I hope your dad is going to do something for my children with this money. I should be getting half of it. Whoa. That's a bad sign, right? Yeah. It's not not what you want to hear at a fucking launch party. Nope. Bud moved out of his house and into a fancy hotel. Then he went on a shopping spree. Oh, this is just not good. What? It's just that it's not good. I mean, for moving, moving into a hotel is questionable. Buy some fucking property. We did live in a roach infested place. But it's not your options aren't hotel or shithole. OK, that's fair. Go buy go buy a place. No fair. Have them fix up the roach motel. Yeah. Like redo the hotel you're staying in the motel. No, the roach infested place he was staying in. Fix that up. Well, that's better than renting it. I'm trying to keep this dude's money. Good luck with that. Yeah. Bud moved out of his house into the fancy hotel. Then he goes on a shopping spree. His lawyer said, quote, he would go to every imaginable store and buy every imaginable thing you could see. Oh, boy. Not good. Not good. I'm somebody. You see, I did it. I'm somebody. They said I wouldn't. But they said I was an idiot. I'll take all those Ottomans. It's like it's like a guy in the desert who hasn't had water for a week and he sees water. He gets a gallon of water and he decides to drink a little and shower. He bought an 18 wheeler, a twin engine airplane, even though he had no idea to fly. He bought tractors, a backhoe and a bulldozer and farms. He bought around 35 Cadillacs, two of which were limousines, and he bought motorcycles. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. He bought 35 Cadillacs. It's like he's writing a book called What Not To Do. How I lost it in three hours. Thirty five Cadillacs. He invested in a liquor license and got a lease for a restaurant in Florida. What is he doing? Just Pennsylvania. Just chill. He bought a 31 foot tall sailboat boat that slept six. Oh, my God. I mean, he's essentially like buying like everything that every mode of transportation. Yeah. I mean, one of them 35 modes of transportation to limousine. He set his brother up and bought for him a used car lot and a fleet of cars to go with it. He blew through three hundred thousand dollars just on gifts. Within three months, he was five hundred thousand dollars in debt. OK, so he spent a million dollars. That means yes. Fast. So he's already spent next year's money. Yeah. Five months later, he married his sixth wife. She was a waitress named Connie. They had been dating before he won the lottery and she signed a prenup that would give her 50 K a year if they divorced. It's a lot of money. That's a shitload of money. Like why would you give? Why would you give that's 10 percent of you? You you. That's a great deal. That's a terrible prenot. That's the worst prenot. That's what the prenup she would give you. What do you think? They moved into a mansion in Oil City, Pennsylvania, in Oil City. Yeah. All right. That they bought for three hundred ninety five thousand dollars and immediately went about upgrading it. I thought you were going to say that they bought with 30 Cadillacs. I mean, we'll give you 30 Cadillacs of the house. How about I give you this boat for the. Ah, you want a jet boat? You want a bulldozer twin engine? I got planes. You want a tractor? I got an elephant. Take this back home. And I'm not talking to my new wife. I'm addressing you. Take this back home. Not take this back home. Honey, no. So the mansion had a beautiful circular staircase, a giant pool in the backyard, a bathtub bigger than most Jacuzzi's with 18 karat gold faucets. Oh, she's what I mean. You're getting only getting water. It's like shit that you should never have. There's no reason to ever have that. It's like MC Hammer's, your financial planner. Oh, fuck. Yes. This is straight up MC Hammer shit. It was known by the neighbors as the Hamburger House because the previous owners also own McDonald's. OK, so they're clever. Neighbors are cool. Neighbors are great. We call it the Hamburger House. Why? We're the worst. That's why. Meet the worst. After he burnt his money, well before the year was over, the next year came along and another half million came. Oh, boy. And that has just got to be. And a spend and he went. Oh, God. But things were still not great. Buddy was a drinker and he fought with his wife a lot. Oh, dear. Someone's getting 50k a year. Right? Yeah. Bud's daughter Gladys said, quote, he constantly changed his phone number because people would call him as soon as they would find out his new number. They call him and ask for money. He got crazy. He'd sit and stare at the surveillance cameras to be sure somebody to be sure nobody was sneaking up to his house. Sounds like Steve Martin and the jerk. Oh, yeah. At this point, it really does. It's just like I mean, it has to. It does have to be its own. I mean, that's why you hear so many stories about people who just lose their money on on the lottery, because it's it's how do you like how can you you can't almost wrap your mind around a middle ground because you've lived like such by a lower standard, most likely for so much time that when you get money, no matter how you tell yourself, like I'm not going to burn through this, you're going to you just are your it's just your mind functions in a realm where it never has before. Unless you already have like a decent house and you can go, OK, I'll pay off my mortgage and I'll just stay here and I won't like don't buy new stuff. Yeah, I'll just live my life comfortably. Yeah, now. But I do believe studies say the majority of people who win the lottery are more unhappy than. Yeah. Than before. No, because because like the truth is that it's it's this your stress level is always like the same in a way. Like there's times when you're more stressed out, there's times when you're less stressed out. But a portion of your brain specifically is always going to be like donated to your stress. Yeah, so when you get yourself in this world, this the stresses are just I mean, there's just even more implications. They're larger. They're just the other really bad thing about it is I think there's only like 10 states that say that you don't have to come out to the public. But most states make you come out to the public, which makes your life hell. Yeah, that means everybody is knowing you all the time. And what you what you would really need to do, I mean, is you need to. Yeah, if it's and even if it's private, you have to like figure out and out of your real life delicately. Yeah, you don't fucking not show up to work the next day. Right. You show up to work. You got to believe some son of a bitch all that money for nothing. Prick. I've been thinking about the Bahamas lately. You know, slowly milk it slowly get in there. Put in another four months at the office. Terrible. But now had 14 TVs in his bedroom. I'll see you, Dave. Six of which were close circuited cameras on his property. That means eight were not. That means eight were for watching all at once. Yeah. Well, one's the weather channel. One CNN, one. Yeah, got a wall full of TVs. I must have at some point. The pressure started getting to him. He would get manic when he thought people were trying to cheat him. He would just sit and stare at the surveillance cameras all day. In 1984, a handyman came to the mansion to collect an overdue invoice. The guy came in through the garage and he was pissed. Oh boy. And Bud was pissed too. Oh boy. This has been building for some time. Bud shot over his head with a shotgun. Whoa. Turns out the guy was actually his stepdaughter's boyfriend. Oh, what? Bud was arrested and convicted of assault. The police came and confiscated 12 rifles and all his ammunition. When they left, left, Bud said 4000 was missing as well. He then sued the police department. Oh boy. You know what? You let it go. You got fucking. 16 minutes. Well, now 15 minutes. 14 and a half minutes. Yeah, relax. Bud now needed a judge's approval before leaving Vanango County. He never repaired the shotgun damage to the garage wall. Sure. You're surprised he didn't fill it with silver. Bud's brother was also not happy. Bud had bought his family a car dealership and a restaurant for 170,000, but that wasn't enough for Bud's brother, Jeffrey. He seemed to believe Bud was going to give him some of the money when he won the lottery. But as the years went by, it became obvious this wasn't going to happen. I'm sure this happens all the time. People get infuriated with you that you haven't given them money. So Jeffrey felt like he was getting erupt off and he hired a hit man to kill Bud and his wife. Jesus Christ. What? Can I borrow some money, Bob? No, I got it. It's mostly wrapped up and stuff. And I also, I bought you the car lot and the restaurant. I need a little money. Why buy you the car lot and the restaurant? I need a little money. Right. So you would be- Five grand. I'm going to hire a hit man. What? I need to borrow five grand. No, this is a, you shouldn't tell me that, number one. But number two, I get $170,000 I spent on you. It's good. I need five grand to get the rest though. What the fuck does that even mean? I need to borrow $5,000. I'm getting a hit man. Hey, stop saying that. I'm getting a hit man, Bob. Jeffrey was arrested for committing solicitation of murder in the first degree and possession of and selling cocaine. Okay. Well, I think that there are logics there. I can't believe he was on cocaine. I'm shocked. How is this guy on cocaine? You know, I was doing- He seems so grounded. The time when I was going to hire a hit man to kill my millionaire brother, I'll be honest, I was doing a little coke. But Jeff, you received parole. Okay. Because he was dying of AIDS. Oh my God. Dave, these are- Look. These are negative details that keep leaking out. If you're dying and someone's giving you $170,000 in businesses, what's the one thing you do? As a dying man, you kill your brother to kill your brother. Because at the point of dying, it's when you really start to evaluate life and what it truly has meaning and what doesn't. And the things that truly have meaning are killing family members. Cocaine and killing siblings. Who gets AIDS and does coke? I don't know. I can't imagine. But I'm betting that's part of the reason he had AIDS. Let's see. It's a very tangled web. But Jeffrey was ordered to have no contact with But. No more. No more killing your brother. Thank you, sir. All righty. But was convinced his brother Ed and sister Patty were also in on it. And so he cut them out of the will and eliminated them from the lottery beneficiary statement. Buddy was informed of this by the Pittsburgh Gazette. So a reporter came and said that Bud thought she was in on the contracted killer thing. Quote, so Buddy no longer is going to have anything to do with the family. That's the greatest news I've heard all week. Buddy is full of it. He blames everyone else for his problems. He's a goddamn liar. You can quote me on that. We will, ma'am. Yeah, we're going to do that. We plan on doing that. This is quoted. Kind of why we came here. We're like this. This is great. Turns out Patty had taken Buddy in the year before when he had separated from his wife for the umpteenth time. Quote, I fed him. I took care of him. He paid me back by drinking a case of Budweiser a day, running up two thousand dollars in phone bills and then paid me with a check that bounced lottery winner. I just I don't even know where to even start. How is a lottery winner living like a guy with no money? Like that's a guy. That's the guy in the family that has no money. Yeah. Yep. This is going well. At this point, only people on the only people in the lottery beneficiary statement were two of his ten kids. So he cut everybody out. And now Bud was spooked. His daughter said he put in even more television monitors with close circuit cameras around the house. You know, I realized the problem. I don't I don't have enough TVs in the bedroom. I need nine more. He was drinking constantly. One of his legs. Terrible start shook all the time. He and his wife were fighting constantly. And when Bud has guns, he'd like to pull them out during fights. He once shot through her purse when she was holding it during a fight. Wow. That's pretty good shot. That's a statement. Which was which was the final draw seems to be when he shot the radiator of her 1989 Pontiac Firebird. Let's go get another one from the garage. It was too much for Bud's wife. I will say on this show, I Pontiac Pontiacs are mentioned a good amount. Yeah. No, no. Yeah, it's for sure. It's it's it's the fight about the Pontiac Firebird is the car of our people. Yeah, it's like it's like it's the car. Like not everyone who drives a Pontiac is a psychopath. But for the most part, every psychopath is Pontiac. Pontiac, are you crazy? Pontiac, we're still in business somewhere, apparently. And everybody's nuts. So it's too much for Bud's wife. She moves out filing for divorce in 1991. Then things got a lot worse. Oh, I was just going to say things can't get any better for this guy. His former landlady and sued him for half the lottery winnings. Oh, boy. This is like years later. I can't believe she's suing me. That's it. I'll buy another TV. Bud. She said they had agreed to split the winnings and that they had been lovers. Now if you saw a picture of this woman, that's the most offensive thing that's happened. She's like a stump, like just a big stump of a person. It's not. Some people like to stump fuck. Bud was adamant that they had never agreed to split the money. It was always that he would give her 20 tickets and the rest were his. That was the agreement. And offered to settle, but Bud wouldn't because it wasn't right. And the judge ruled for her. The judge based that number. There's nothing in writing. The judge based it on the fact that Bud had bought the tickets and kept 40 and given her 20. So under that reasoning, he said he owed her 33 percent. Doesn't that? OK, it seems to me. It's the stupidest judge in the world. That reasoning clearly says to you they had an agreement of like you get 20 and you get 40. Otherwise, why wouldn't each keep 30? Well, then you would just keep them all and scratch them all off. Yeah. Or like you could. The point is having a number that is different for each one of them receiving the tickets tells you that there was a ticket agreement over a financial settlement. Right. Yeah. It's fucking insane. Yeah. Good judgment. The stupidest judge in the world makes them split the amount. So he. All rise. The honorable judge, stupid, is entering the courtroom. Right here, judge. Right here, your honor. Right here, your honor. Sit down, your honor. Sit down, your honor. Hi. Yeah. Yeah. Order in the court. Say order. Three percent. Order in the court. Lady gets that. All right. Judge Stupid has made his verdict. All right. There we go. Wheel him back. Wheel him back into the room. Wheel him back there. So she gets five point three million in annual payouts. Wow. What? Buds broke again. He was spending more than he brought in. He had no money in the bank. Five point three in annual payouts. Yeah, because it's annual payouts, right? Yeah. So he was only getting like hundreds of thousands a year. He's getting five hundred thousand a year. But no, no, she's not getting five three five point me million a year. She's getting five point three million over over years. Gotcha. So he has no money in the bank. He only has bills. He was worrying about not having money all the time. His brother Ed said that Bud had had continual money problems since he won the lottery because he buys hell high and sells low. Oh, quote from his daughter. He wanted me to come down. I got to his house. It was a total wreck. There were moldy dishes and empty beer cans everywhere. It was disgusting. He was getting vascular cluster headaches that were extremely painful and he found they came when he wore his false teeth. So now he was rarely wearing them. Why didn't you want to go visit him? I can't believe this guy worked at a carnival. He stayed at home most of the time. He sold his furniture off and other possessions to pay his debts. So he's just going to eventually live in an empty house with beer cans and no teeth. That's what he's living in. He sold all his furniture because he's a lottery winner who gets five hundred thousand dollars. He's still getting five hundred thousand dollars a year and he's selling his furniture. How fucking incompetent. Like that's beyond the beyond. It's insane. It's a good thing he didn't get a lump sum. At least he's got the boat. So he's got his boat. Most of the rooms in his house were empty. Plastic garbage cans collected rainwater from the leaky ceiling. Jesus. There was just a hole from where the person who bought the jacuzzi had taken it. At what point is this not a mansion? Breaking bad. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what it is. He's just got a hole. I put a TV over it. Any hole I just basically put a TV over. See that's where the couch used to be. I just put a TV there. OK now this is the worst thing. Oh boy. The broken security system would beep six times every 60 seconds. Bud said he couldn't afford to get it fixed. No. No. Six times every 60 seconds. Every 10 seconds. Beep beep. He's just sitting there staring at the TV. Beep beep. Beep beep. Why would he just. He was so freaked out about getting robbed but he's got nothing that he didn't disconnect it. Just unplug it. What is it? There's nothing to take from him anymore. The only thing they could possibly take is the beep beep. Maybe he's worried they're going to steal his hole. I'm worried they're going to steal the hole that the tub used to be in. Beep beep. The front yard was filled with weeds because he had given his lawnmower away to his stepdaughter. The backyard pool was filled with dirt and weeds. Two unkept trailers sat outside in the yard. Eight brick pedestals that used to hold statues were now empty. This is what I picture Larry the Cable Guy's house looking like. But that's how he wants it. Yeah. Bud was then forced to declare bankruptcy. It was eight years after winning 16 million dollars. But asked the court if he could auction off his remaining lottery winnings for two million dollars to pay his debts and then have some left over. So he's in such dire straits. But that is so terrible. Well he's in such dire straits that he has a guaranteed eight million dollars and he's going to sell it for two million. But don't. That is the most fucked up. I'm just getting money. Would you like to buy it? It's crazy. In a world where he's lost all of his money so fast, the idea that he's found a new way to sort of step it up. I figured out a way to. What I'm doing right now is I'm selling six million dollars for two. That's my latest plan. It's going great. I'm out of money. The court allowed him to auction off his winnings. That left him after paying his debts one million in cash. That money is gone. That's a decent amount that someone can live on. Yes for sure. I can't wait. I can't wait to see what candy he bought. Fortunately this is Bud. Oh God. Bud then came to the conclusion completely on his own that if he spent all his money he would get some sort of tax deduction. I love how you just put the mic down and take a big sip because you know that's the craziest shit you've ever said. With no. If he spends all his money he'll get a tax break. But that's so stupid. And he said he had 38 days to do it. That arbitrarily he's just come up with. So like he's got like a beer can as his accountant right now. Just like come on bud. The beer can said do it in 38. 36 is what it said. His lawyer told him this was a very very bad idea and it didn't make any sense. It makes no sense. The idea the idea that you're like you have the money and you're like I figured out. I mean he's found another way to lose a lot of his money and get a little bit back. Right. Right. How does he keep doing it. I'm not getting any kind of tax break. He's just spending money. Right. But even in his world of war logic he's going to end up owing taxes on the million dollars. They tax me real heavy on that million. I don't know what a tax break is. So bud went on a spending spree. He bought tools for a business he never started. He bought an uninsured boat that quickly caught on fire. In a year he was completely out of money. He was now living on Social Security and disability and he was incredibly happy. Oh that's great. He said what was important to him was peace of mind. He no longer had the stress of worrying about people coming to get money from him or to steal from him. He no longer had the surveillance cameras. He was much more relaxed but he still lives with the beep beep. He still lives in the beep beep. I want to move the beep beep. The only thing he kept was the alarm beep beep. He died of respiratory failure on July 26 2006. He left behind his latest wife which was the seventh and eight children. Gladys said of her dad quote, my dad got so much happier when he had nothing after the money was gone. He realized what was important. You know they say that for his burial he was only buried two feet deep but paid for six. Wow that's crazy. Right. Yeah it's nuts. I mean but it is there is just something it's so bizarre how the lottery is this portal into your true self almost the fucking stories man. I know if you really if you really get into the stories. Holy fuck. No I just heard this one about this guy named Bud who he had like this. He had three dollars in his bank account and then oh no no we just did this. Sorry. That's the one I'm thinking of. Oh we just did. Right. Right. All righty. All right. Well we signed another day another dollop. We signed cars. Yeah.