 When does this one come out? When does this one? Tuesday. Okay. You're listening to The Dollop. This is a bi-weekly American history podcast. Each week I read a story from American history to my friend. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. We did it. Yeah. Clean. Simple. We did it. No bullshit. Let's just, let's just, of course there's a dog barking. Well, maybe you can't hear it. And it didn't start until we moved my keys. And Jose has a pink bandana on. It's red, buddy. That's pink. Reddy. No way, red. He's a reddy. God, do you want to look at a dude? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Steve, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become the tickling podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. Nicely done, my friend. No. No. So, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, ein h kittens coming raer et uhh holih e a dalh ohaj haches power rolh a dal created a god getness That wasn't me. That was an Jose. No, it was both you. April 30th, 1970. Okay. President Nixon announced that the US had invaded Cambodia in order to disrupt the supply lines and strongholds of the enemy, the other people. So it's a feel-good. It's going to be well-working. You'll see. Sure. This came after he'd been promising for a year to begin to wind down the Vietnam War. That's how you wind it down. That's how you wind it down. You know what? I said I was winding down Vietnam. I didn't say I was winding down Cambodia. Nixon rule. Hi Kissinger. Of course, this was met with fury. Protests were held all over the country. Four days later, 2000 college students were protesting the new Cambodian campaign at Kent State University in Kent, Ohio. Oh boy. Nothing happened. Yeah. The Ohio National Guard shot 67 rounds, killing four students and wounding nine. Perfect. Because the students were looking at him funny. Yeah. That's how you deal with them. Some of the students... Guess who was not looking funny at him anymore? Who? The students. Oh, that's a good point. Thank you. Put them in line, didn't it? Take that Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young. Some of the students were just watching her had been walking by. Interesting. Some of the students were just walking to class and got killed. Yeah, but you know, that's also bullshit. Right? Yeah. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. There'll be no follow-ups. Okay, that's just the statement. Yes. Fair. This of course led to a student strike across the country and massive protests, including in New York City. You know, and also while I was reading this, I discovered that two students about two weeks later were shot and killed by local police and state police at, I think it was Jackson University, but because they were black, no one knows about it. Well... America. Are you surprised by that? It's horrifying. Oh. It's horrifying. Feels like part of the black course. In New York City, Mayor John Lindsay called for a day of reflection on May 8th to, quote, reflect solemnly on the numbing events at Kent State University and their implications for the future fate of America. Okay. That's fair? Yeah. The time to think about it. He ordered flags to be flown at half-mast to honor the dead students. Around a thousand high school and college students gathered at Federal Hall in Lower Manhattan to protest. Okay. Now around lunchtime, a group of about 200 angry construction workers who were working on the nearby World Trade Center... Oh boy.... marched to confront the protesters. Okay. They were union guys, almost all white. Now, while that may be the prevailing idea today of what union guys are, for some reason that's what Democrats have decided is that all unionists are white, dumb hicks. They've just... Yeah. Not educated, angry, conservative, that's the standard. That wasn't actually the case for most union guys at the time. Okay. The roots of what was about to occur that day in New York City started in the 1930s. During FDR's New Deal, labor unions embraced the Democratic Party, which was problematic. This meant unions worked to kick out militants in their union and that they put emphasis on political lobbying instead of grassroots work. Right. Unions also embraced the Red Scare. Okay. Do you enjoy the Red Scare? Hey, you mean A and flow? Ho! Hey, comes out the month, goes right away. Hey! You remember when the unions worked against the menstruation? The menstruation to protestation? Yes, I'm familiar with the Red Scare. Are you asking if I know what the Red Scare is? I'm just checking. Okay, yes. The answer is yes. So they were also... Unions backed the deployment of troops abroad and the Korean War. This is kind of a switch for unions. They hadn't done this before. Okay. They're mostly socialists, really serious leftists. Right. When the AFL and CIO unions merged in 1955, one of the conditions was that they both accept anti-communism platforms. Okay. Which is weird if you think about unions. The only way we merge is if we don't like the commies. Right. We're kind of our commies a little bit. No more, no we're not. We're better than them. We're a group that comes together. You're damn right we are. And we're going to stamp out communists if they try to step on this group that is looked at equal by each other. Okay. I feel weird right now. Anyone who comes over here and tries to bring communism to what I'm considering a group of peers, friends, and equals all sharing in the same amount of wealth. I'm going to fuck them up. Okay, but what you're saying is... Is? I mean it's contradictory. I'm saying that communism and socialism is sort of the same thing as what you... And if either one rears its ugly head near a group whose spine, whose fundamental growth is based upon sharing equally. Okay. I will ruin them. Okay, I gotta go. Ah! Ah! Ah! So, anyway, everyone was on board because you know, the Cold War. Then came the 60s and all hell broke loose. The new left rose. So the new left consisted of educators and agitators and others who fought for civil rights, gay rights, abortion, gender roles, and legalized drugs. Right. This was different from earlier leftist movements that had focused on labor unionization and questions of social class. Okay. So there's some shit going on. It's the 60s. Moving in the right direction. Yes, moving in the right direction. The new left rejected the labor movement and the theory of class struggle. Okay. These were hippies and anti-war college campus protest movements. Right? So there it gets. So the new left is like, well fuck the guys that... Union guys working. Fuck the union guys who should love communism. They're a bunch of fucking twats. But the problem with casting out labor unions was that they weren't all white and conservative. Unions had marched with MLK and they were... There were ideological divides within the AFL CIO. This was a federation of unions with a lot of autonomy. So it's like a ton of unions that came together, you know, under this big banner. And they didn't all agree with the fucking anti-communist shit and whatever else. Many of the CIO unions were on board with the new left than the AFL unions who were more conservative, particularly when it came to civil rights. CIO unions like the United Auto Workers and the United Packing House Workers gave money and logistical support to civil rights activists. Okay. I just like packing house workers. What? Being the supporting civil... What do you mean? I just like the fact that they're packing... Packing stuff. They're packers. Yeah. They just pack. They pack meat, right? That's the deal. No, suitcases for trips. You know, Greg loves this shirt. And also, don't forget, Kathy will want the snorkel kit. And the flippers. Jam the flippers in. So it's just a union of the guys who pack suitcases. Yeah, pack suitcases. Yep, for sure. Yeah, they're meat. They work in meat plants. Meat packing. That's generally... The UAW gave start money to the students for a democratic society who are crazy leftists. What's the UAW? Sorry. United Auto Workers. Okay. So they're fucking funding the most left of the left. Right. Right. But the head of the AFL-CIO, whose name was George Meany... Oh, unreal. You can't... I mean, it's like that series of books where it's like, Mr. Stumbly, Mr. Angry. Yeah, when it came across his name, I was like, that's just amazing. So George Meany was not down with the new social... Mr. Meany, why are you doing this to us? You're on a bunch of shit facts! Mr. Meany's in one of his Meany moods. So he was against the social movements and kept having confrontations with other union heads who were much more liberal. Meany then became a conservative spokesman. Meany. We have our bad guy. And he was enraged when a bunch of other union heads ignored him and supported the civil rights movement. The AFL... There is something so interesting about being a group that is all about solidarity when the man's trying to like fuck with you only to be like, but not the blacks! Right. The blacks aren't allowed! They can't collectively do stuff like this, okay? It's fucking crazy. Yeah. Which makes sense why a bunch of unions were totally pro-civil rights. Yeah. If not, you were just totally blackworts. Super blackworts. The AFL-CIO endorsed a civil rights law and Meany was furious. Of course he was. He's Meany! He's very Meany. Aw, I'm steamy Meany! Have you not heard my name? He also insisted that the unions give unqualified support to the Vietnam War. But... This guy's killing it. Yeah. Walter Reuther... Interesting....had been a socialist union leader, risen up to become the president of the UAW, and was now head of the CIO. He jumped in with the newly formed Labor Leadership Assembly for Peace in 1967. And Meany publicly called Reuther a kook. So the two heads of the unions... Yeah, so now the two heads of the unions that are formed into one union... Right, which Meany is now technically the head of. He was the head of the AFL. Now he's the head of the AFL. Now they don't. They completely disagree. And Reuther's right underneath them and he's all for being a hippie. Right. It's strange when a group of people who were on the same page until real issues came up find out that they're splintered, huh? It is weird, isn't it? I wonder. It's almost like there's parallels to... Many... Sorry. Meany apparently didn't realize that 522 other labor leaders also endorsed the Labor Leadership Assembly for Peace. So Meany wasn't doing his homework. He was not at all. Meany was just operating from his gut. Meany thought that they were all undermining the forces in Vietnam. No, they're all undermining the forces! That's the worst argument. How can they fight if they think that people don't like them? Meany, Meany, Meany angry. And if the US lost to Vietnam... If the US lost and Vietnam went to the communists, Meany thought it would be the end of free trade unions. I mean... That is quite a leap there, right? It's a huge jump. How does one even connect those dots necessarily? I really tried to think about it for a while, but I couldn't put it together. Because Vietnam really was one of the... Vietnam probably wasn't the first, but it's just like since World War II, World War II really spoiled us with war. Yeah. Because we then became like... So like... Woo! We're in the streets. We're making out. The guys are back in town. We won the shit. And then from then on, it's just been like unsolvable conflicts that we're like, when are we going to win this shit? How does this work? Throw more money and menate it until it's official that the refs called it for us. Yeah. So apparently it's going to end free trade unions. Oh, good. At the AFL-CIO convention in 1967, Meany said that in Vietnam, the AFL-CIO was neither hawk nor dove nor chicken, but was supporting brother trade unionists struggling against communism. Okay. Yeah, he's... By the way, he's got... I mean, on paper, I still take the last title. Chicken? No. The one after that. The one that's like, you support black people are getting mushed by communism. Yeah, okay. It just makes no sense. Chicken? Chicken. Neither hawk nor chicken. Not chickens. No rooster. No rooster. Penguins. They are penguins. Thank you, Gary, in the back. After all the violence at the 1968 Democratic National Convention, Meany called the protesters quote, dirty-necked and dirty-mouthed group of kooks. So he liked kooks. He liked the word kooks a lot. I get that. But I love that they're dirty-necked. Oh, dirty-necked? Yeah, like they're not washing. Oh, I thought he said dirty-neck. Like their necks are dirty. Oh, you are saying neck. Okay, yeah, dirty-neck. Yeah. Right. They're not bathing. Well, that's the one place you can't see when you're just washing in the mirror in the bathroom. That's right. You're just like, oh, clean as a whistle. Then you turn around and you just look like you've been dragged through mud. Pig pen. So Reether, the head of the CIO, couldn't take the old line conservative bullshit of meeting his crew, and he resigned from the AFL-CIO and took the United Auto Workers Union with him. Okay. So fucking that guy's the shit. Stormed out. Yeah. The Vietnam War wasn't going well when Nixon was elected. This created more tension amongst blue collar workers. Many conservative white workers were scared of civil rights militants and all the counterculture bullshit, while others who were liberal were on board with the civil rights movement. Nixon encouraged this division amongst the workers as he saw that he could siphon off a bunch of blue collar votes that had been going to Democrats for so long. Okay. By 1969, political analysts were openly talking about blue collar conservatives and their anger at affirmative action and their hatred of the lack of patriotism of the new left. The left union workers, of whom there were many, of whom had voted to support civil rights, whose unions had split off from in the fight, were being forgotten already. A movie named Joe starring Peter Boyle came out in 1970. In it, Boyle plays a blue collar worker who befriends an advertising executive who had killed a hippie. So he... So I read the description of the movie. This ad executive kills a hippie in a rage and then he accidentally blurts it out and then this guy, this blue collar worker befriends him because he's like, that's cool, you killed a hippie. Hey, listen. That actually doesn't sound too crazy now that you mention it. You know what I mean? You should hang out a little bit. Yeah. Because I'm a blue collar guy and I want to kill hippies. What was it like? So after... When you grabbed the beatnik by its bandana and lumpy hair. He just bashed him with a pipe. How great was it? The pipe that he was just smoking. After a lot of hippie rage, they drove to a commune and killed all the hippies living there. Whoa, whoa, whoa. This was a movie? It was a hit. A hit? It was a big hit. Peter Boyle worked for a while. I know, right? Yeah. The stereotype of the white angry at the left blue collar worker was being cemented. Right? So now you're moving into the creators of art propagating the idea that all blue collar workers are racist monsters. And also right now trying to show the trend of the left moving to the right a little bit in a way. Yeah. Right? And you're also... So think about it. So if you're a blue collar worker and you've just been fighting for civil rights and doing all this shit and now you're being portrayed as a monster, what are you thinking? Peter Boyle's good. One of the most conservative groups in the AFL-CIO were construction workers. But the support for the war was not strong amongst all union workers. The war had cost many lives and made economic conditions in the US worse. The war had the most support from college-educated professionals. Wow. That's crazy. In truth, thousands of workers were part of the anti-war protest, which they were organized through their unions. Okay. A poll taken at the time found that a majority of union workers thought the war was a mistake and wanted out. But the construction workers on May 8th on Wall Street in New York City would have one of the biggest impacts on how we would view union workers from then until now. The construction workers at the World Trade Center were told by their shop stewards to leave the job site and to confront the protesters, who were of course protesting the Kent State, people who were killed, and they were told they would be paid to do it. Some were given a bonus, a cash bonus, to quote, break some heads. They weren't just going after the protesters. This was Biggers. They also had impeach Lindsay signs, the mayor, who was considered an aristocrat and socially liberal. They had earlier in the year had flags lowered to half-mast during the national moratorium against the war day, and conservatives lost their shit. Okay. They were furious that a mayor would inject himself into a fight between war protesters and the president and the soldiers. Now, six months later, the construction workers were marching down Wall Street toward the thousand protesters ready for payback. And these were the white union workers. These are the guys that you look at, the stereotype that now exists. They were conservatives. Construction union workers were at the forefront of keeping blacks out of their union. Peter Brennan was head of the building trades council, and his response to the city pushing for integration in the construction unions was to create a training program for blacks, where the training would take place in a separate place than where the construction was happening. And then after their training, they wouldn't get a union membership, and they wouldn't get a job when they were finished. Well that's how you integrate, isn't it? I mean, no complaints on how he handled integration. No, I mean- I mean, aside from not integrating. All right, we'll let the black guys into a training program. We're going to have them over in Jersey in a warehouse. They can play video games next door for a buck an hour. And then when they're done, no job, no union card. Good? Better, better. That's our plan. Definitely a little bit- That's our plan! The mayor, of course, pushed back against this plan, but Peter Brennan held firm. Now a shitload of his boys were marching towards City Hall. As they passed Trinity Church, they ripped a Red Cross banner from the gates down, and they tried to rip down a flag of the Episcopal Church. Interesting. Later, the reverend at the church would say, quote, I suppose they thought it was a Viet Cong flag. Oh, what? I think he was just calling them idiots. The 200 construction workers moved on, and they attacked the protesters, who were mostly from New York University and Hunter College, as well as nearby high schools. The union workers split up and came from four different directions. The construction workers were wearing brown overalls and orange and yellow hard hats. And in their supposed spontaneous counter-protest, they all managed to be carrying American flags and signs with patriotic slogans, which will happen when you- But they probably did that on the walk. Well, yeah. Someone's putting together signs, making sandwiches. Yeah, that's what happens when you do it. You have a to-do list. On a spontaneous, most spontaneous counter-protest, you make signs. Yeah, you have signs. Big puppet heads. For sure. Yeah. When they first arrived, they walked up to the police line and said to the cops, quote, all we want to do is put our flag up on those steps. A police inspector replied, if you try, there'll be blood to pay. And now it wasn't just construction workers. As they marched toward Federal Hall from the World Trade Center construction site, chanting all the way USA and love it or leave it, they picked up like-minded New Yorkers who joined them on the march. Please tell me we've got the ancestor of someone we know in that group. Sure there was. The students were all sitting on the sidewalk in pavement listening to speakers. The police presence was small and they did almost nothing to stop the construction workers. Within two minutes, the construction workers were past the police line and planting their flags on the statue of George Washington. The kids scattered in every direction trying to hide amongst the office workers who were on their lunch hour. But the construction workers found them, especially grabbing the males with long hair who they would kick and beat with their helmets. Edward Schufra was watching through binoculars from his office in his brokerage firm. He saw two men in gray suits and gray hats directing the workers with hand motions. Some people on the street tried to protect the kids, but they were tossed aside or beaten also. One man was hit with a pair of pliers and had a head wound. A Democratic candidate for the state Senate was beaten and kicked by construction workers as they yelled, kill the commie bastards. That's interesting. You could tell where they stand. He said the police just sat there watching the beating, but the construction workers were not done. They then marched to City Hall. There, a mailman who had joined the mob went up to the roof. Oh, the mob of protestors. Protestors, yeah. Went up to the roof and raised the flag from half mast all the way to full mast. Oh snap. Yeah, take that shit. Now you know. Now you better recognize. And then the crowd below in the street cheered. An aide to the mayor then went up and lowered the flag to half mast again. It's on. We're having a flag off. Bad move. It's mast off, really. Now the crowd was furious. As if they weren't before. They leapt over the police barricades, ran across parked cars, and past mounted policemen. They beat the policemen who were guarding the front doors. The police didn't think they could hold back the mob and they pleaded with the mayor to raise the flag. The deputy mayor who was there and therefore in charge ordered the flag to be raised to full staff. All the way, all the way is fine. All the way, all the way is fine. Up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up. You know what's funny is when I was looking at it at half I thought to myself that doesn't look right at all. So I put it back up. All the way, all the way. Does anyone want a sandwich? We have sandwiches here. Sammies. Sammies for you guys if you want anything you want. As the flag was raised the workers below sang the Star Spangled Banner. Oh wow. They're almost like a parody. And the deputy mayor's red glare. But a construction worker yelled at the cops to take off their helmets while they sang the song. Oh what the fuck. It's like patriotism has exploded. About half the cops did, grinning sheepishly. Yeah okay. Yeah. All right. You got us. You got us. After the construction workers started chanting Lindsay is a Red, one of Lindsay's aides told the construction worker to quote, stop being juveniles. Wrong thing to say to juveniles. It's not how you stop them. You go to their level. The construction worker responded, what do you mean being a juvenile and then punch the aid in the face? That'll teach you. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. You got to go to their level. You got to punch them in the face. That's right. Another group of construction workers attacked Pace College, which was across the street from City Hall Park. They had apparently become angry when they saw a peace banner hanging from the roof of the college. No, it says Pace. It says Pace. It says Pace. No, it says Pace. That's the name of Doe. The banner was ripped down by one construction worker and burned in the street. That'll teach you. Other men went into the college and started trashing it and just beating up random students who were minding their business. So my only question is who is the villain in this one? Who are we rooting against? It's hard to tell. I can't tell. The kids at Pace? I love the idea of kids. These kids who did not join the protests, who were just sitting there maybe studying or having a little lunch. Oh, were you guys here to fix the hole in the wall? When I went to college, there were two riots when I went to college. One when I was living in San Luis Obispo and another one when I was living in Santa Barbara. Both riots were basically these drunken, idiot things that happened. But in both riots, cops and riot gear broke down doors of apartment buildings of student housing and beat up friends of mine. One guy was just putting peanut butter on toasts and a cop kicked in the door and ran in and just beat him up with a billy club and ran out. What kind of peanut butter though? Wow. Yeah. That's cool. Yeah, it's very cool. So what is the idea there? The idea there is just send a crazy message. You don't want this at all. My feeling was that it was like, God, we've been listening to your little fucking bullshit, arrogant little student shit for so fucking long that we just get to do whatever we want today. Yeah. They opened the doors today so now we can do whatever we want. Yeah, basically. And we're going to take your peanut butter. Yeah. One construction worker told the New York Times that the attack was well organized and had been planned days in advance. At least twice during the melee, this construction worker had seen two men in business suits with matching color patches on their lapels shouting orders to the construction workers on who to attack. Sorry. Have we heard about those guys before? We have heard about those guys before. Right. And now there's a construction worker saying the same thing. It's interesting that there were guys there in suits. It's weird. It's almost like it was organized and no, that would be conspiracy theory. Okay. All right. Finally, the fighting stopped, but this was just the beginning of the pro-war activities. For the rest of May, building trade workers would rally for the war all over the city. On May 20th, the rallies became officially sponsored by the building at Construction Trades Council. The movement- Well, you pay for shit and you organize it. Oh, you are actually now sponsoring a movement. A pro-war movement. A pro-war movement. Okay. The movement was so large that 100,000 people marched one day with signs that read, God bless the establishment. Could you imagine? God bless the establishment. First of all, fuck the establishment. Second of all, quit thinking God is here for a reason. How proud would the people who did the tea party in Boston way back when, way back when, how proud would they have, the people who fought in the revolution, how proud would they have been to see 100,000 people marching down Broadway with signs that said, God bless the establishment. So great. To just time travel in there. Here you go. This is what happened. What are they saying? Who were they? They're the workers. It would just be like 100 Hugh Grant's. Why are the people marching? Because we had to establish the idea that we were against a class system. Peter Brennan, the president of the building and construction trade council became a hero for applauding the construction workers attacks on hippies that day. He led some of the pro-war rallies and they also doubled as rallies against the mayor. Protesters called Lindsay, quote, the red mayor, trader, commie rat, and a bum. The mayor responded by describing the mood of the city as taut. Again, that's like, don't be so classy when you're talking in a situation like this. You just have to just be like, I am not a rat, a commie rat. He's such an aristocrat. This led very quickly to hippies seeing labor unions as part of the machine. Soon the Democrats led by McGovern would rewrite the Democratic Party platform and make a conscious move away from labor unions. They decided labor unions were no longer needed. And the stereotypes and beliefs of the manual laborers has carried over to today, mostly shaped by this one day in New York City and one small sector of labor, forgetting all those in the public sector and industrial unions who fought for civil rights and against the Vietnam war. This of course all worked out wonderfully for Nixon. Peter Brennan was invited to the White House with 22 other pro-war union leaders. There Brennan presented Nixon with a hard hat. Can you imagine how awkward he was putting it on? Oh, God. Let me just get this hat on. He puts it on like upside down. But this is, just think about this. This is one month after students, unarmed students were shot and killed that led to a sort of memorial protest. And then they were attacked by men who hit them with hard hats and beat them. And then the president is being given a hard hat with the weapon of choice of the day of beating protesters. Right. Yeah. It's cool, right? But this was all part of Nixon's plan to win over the blue collar workers, create more division between the left and the unions. And it was very effective. After his reelection, Nixon appointed Brennan to be his secretary of labor. There Brennan compromised over the minimum wage. Of course he did. There we go. The decline of the union workers was just around the corner. And because of the hard hat riot and the beliefs that came forth after Nixon, the blue collar workers have never had a president in their corner helping them. The hard hat riots reflect a splintering of the New Deal Democratic party and the organized labor alliance. The polarization had begun. Today's labor movement, while very small, more represents diverse working class of the United States. Black workers are more likely to be unionized than whites, Latinos or Asians. Unions are at the front of the struggle for immigrant rights. Mayor Lindsey went on to run for president in 1971 but lost badly. Soon he was no longer mayor of New York. Historian Fred Siegel said he was the worst New York City mayor of the 20th century, calling him actively distracted. But he really was. I mean, he was merely just trying to... Okay. Well, I don't even need to get into it. It's pretty obvious. Well, that's fun. So that's just a little history of how we came to come up with what is basically a stereotype of the working poor. Which we, boy, are we down with that stereotype. So it's sad. Let's party. I hope everyone's uplifted, feels good. Alrighty. We sign cars, just not poor people's cars. Oh, God.