 Always fun. You're listening to The Dollop. This is a bi-weekly American history podcast each week. I tell a story from American history to my friend, Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. I'm going to put the mic thing on. Did that look... You didn't say anything? The mic thing was coming off. It looked great. It was very phallic and it's covered in fur. There's hair all over it. Is that from the floor? Or did you... Well, who else would it be from? It's Jose. Why would it be... You put it down for like one second. It doesn't matter. Your house is filthy. Dude, the carpet isn't made of him. We'll be right back. God, do you want to look at a dude? I'll do one bump. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Stay of okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I said done, my friend. No. No. So this podcast is sponsored by subscribers on Patreon. We want to thank each and every one of you for giving. It is awesome. You get what? You get eight podcasts a month. If you give a buck, that's like... Mathematically speaking, that's $30 a podcast. Yeah. And that's easy. Also, we are on the All Things Comedy Network. That is a network of podcasts. You can go check them out at allthingscomedy.com. There's a bunch of good podcasts on there. Get on it. 55 of them. Get on it, girl. All right. Did I do that right? Do what right? Say get it. Get on it, girl. No. I think I did. No. David. We're brought to you in part by Policy Genius. Look, if someone relies on you for financial support, whether it's a child or an aging parent or even a business partner, you need life insurance. Life insurance, it gives you peace of mind. So if something happens to you, your loved ones, they're going to have a financial cushion to pay for things like rent, mortgage, loans, education, just everything. Daily expenses. And usually life insurance gets more expensive as you age. So it starts to start a policy soon rather than waiting on it. So look, head over to policygenius.com and answer a few questions about yourself. And in just a few minutes, you can work out how much life insurance coverage you need. And then you compare personalized quotes to find your best price. You could save 50% or more on life insurance by comparing quotes with Policy Genius. And they work for you. So Policy Genius works for you, not the insurance companies. So you can trust them to offer unbiased help and advocate for you at every step until you're covered. They don't add on extra fees. They don't sell your info to third parties. So head to policygenius.com to get your free life insurance quotes and see how much you could save. That's policygenius.com. We are brought to you in part by Zen Business. Look, a lot of people right now, the great resignation is on. They're like out of their jobs. They're like, I don't want to do this anymore. I want more control of my life. I want a better life. I don't want a boss man telling me what to do. And so a lot of people are starting their own business. Zen Business is very, very helpful. They got an all-in-one platform. It guides you as a new entrepreneur through all the stuff you have to go through to get it going at LLC or whatever you're going to set up. Got a super easy pricing structure. Starts as low as $49. And then look, they're not going to hit you with a bunch of hidden fees. It's all very straightforward. What they say is what it is. They have a very fast and simple business formation for LLC and other business structures. Worry-free compliance and annual filings so you can stay in good standing with the state. You can secure an employee ID number so you can open a bank account, hire employees, protect your personal, all that stuff. I wish I had had Zen Business when I started my business. It would have freed up all that time I spent on paperwork and all that stuff so I could have just focused on the business. So look, Zen Business has helped hundreds of thousands of people get their business off the ground by guiding them every step of the way and making it easier to launch a successful business. Get started today for as low as $49 at zenbusiness.com slash dollop. That's zenbusiness.com slash dollop. July 1838. July, oh, July, July 1838. I thought you said July 1838. I was like, what year is this? 1838. Yeah. I thought there was a comma after the 18. So you thought that I was doing 18. July 1838, 38, 38 p.m. Bass Reeves was born a slave in Crawford County. He was the son of a woman owned by most most people are that is true. Well, but it could have been the son of a man. Sure. Owned by William S. Reeves, who had served in the Tennessee legislature before moving to Arkansas. He would eventually serve in both the Arkansas and Texas legislatures. OK, the dad, a hot man around town, dad, slave owner, slave, yes, slash dad, in your opinion. Deadbeat the dad, the dad guy master, papa owner dad. You mean his papa? When Bass was eight years old, William Reeves moved to North Texas. Their bass was a stable hand and a blacksmith's apprentice. But he was black. Blacksmith. Not just the Smith. Bass then became William Reeves, manservant and went wherever Reeves went. OK, I think that's a step up. I don't know how. Yeah, man. Yeah, you can put that in a business card. Yeah, now you got now you're building a resume and you're slave. Pardon me, manservant. Excuse me, sir. Manservant. I didn't spend four years in serventry school to be called slave. Servantry school. William Reeves also allowed Bass to use his guns for hunting. OK, so there's OK. A lot of very trusting of a lot of trust. Yeah, that is a lot of trust. Very trusting of your slave. Very Django. It quickly became apparent Bass was a very good shot and very quick. This gave Bass self confidence. OK, cool. Bass quickly surpassed his master, who was a poor shot. Oh, that's that's that's like a caddy shake. You got to lose. You got to lose the game. Got to start shooting erratly. William Reeves was not even slightly concerned that his slave was so good with a gun. Instead, he took pride in it and bragged about it and entered him in turkey shoots and other contests. Turkey shoots. OK, sure. Bass was such a good marksman that he was quickly banned from all gun competitions. I mean, I feel like part of that is because he might have been. Yeah, there's you just dude. And anyway, it's like anyone can enter. And then there's your black. Then the black guy is too good. Sorry, you didn't say he was good. He's showing up the whiteys. You can't beat white man. William Reeves joined the 11th Texas cavalry before the Civil War. OK, and Bass served with him in battle. OK, so because he's a man servant. So obviously he's going to. So is he just like telling him to shoot like when he would shoot? I assume. It's almost like a video game. Well, he's. Shoot. He's fighting. He's serving with a guy who's fighting to keep him a slave. Oh, I didn't even think that's fucking cute. What the fuck? That's amazing. It's so fucked up. He was like, you're the good shot. Not me. Come with me and shoot. The people are trying to free you. I'm a little conflicted. You keep hitting the tree. I know I keep hitting the tree. Those guys should win. Must have slept funny. Bass was at the battles of Chickamauga, Missionary Ridge, and Pea Ridge in Arkansas. Sometime during the Civil War, Bass was playing cards with William Reeves, and they got into an argument. So Bass punched Reeves in the face. Jesus. Which is generally not. Is that frowned upon? I mean, as far as. Walk me through the etiquette of this relationship. What I know about the slave owner. Man servant. What I know about the manservant owner relationship is that the manservant is not supposed to strike the owner. Something tells me that if you're a former slave who's turned into a manservant and you punch the man who used to own you. He's still a slave. Oh, he is. Yeah, he's just a man. It's just he's his new. He's not like a field slave. Now he's a manservant slave. Oh, so he got upgraded in the terrible. It's a slave upgrade. Right. OK. The slave grade. He's still owned by another human. OK. And my guess is that you become a regular slave as soon as you punch him in the face. You're no longer a manservant. So think of how much you got to piss somebody off to break that rule. For a slave to punch you in the face, you have to be such a dick. You have to be. I mean, that's really got to. Well, I'm killing myself. You have to be running across the line. So worth it. Yeah. So Bass ran off. OK. He ran to Indian territory in March 1862. OK. Which is the state of Oklahoma. OK. Reeves lived with the Creeks and the Seminoles and learned. I thought you were going to say in the Bloods. In the Bloods. The Creeks and the Crips. And he learned to speak the Muskogee language and the languages of other tribes. So OK. So now he's living. So now he's like a Native American linguist. He's a Native American. A lot of slaves ran off and joined the Native American. Would probably probably where else would you go? Probably people you can have a little more understanding with. Hi. We're both getting fucked. I hate white people. We hate white people. Oh, yeah. I hate them. They're the worst. Look at the poster over there. Fuck the whitey. I used to have that in my room. I punched one. Room. Barn. I punched one. Get in here. Come on. Come on. Get the food. Get the maize. So at some point, Bass joined a unit of Union soldiers made up of Blacks and Native Americans who fought the Confederate allied tribes. How is that not a movie? Right? That's awesome. Do you know how it's not a movie? Because white people. Because it stars black guys fighting Native Americans. No, but it's got to be. How is that not a fucking movie? You know why it's not a movie? Because they fought other tribes. They weren't fighting. They weren't fighting the Confederates. I don't think so. Maybe they did. But from what I read, it sounded like they were just fighting. Well, Hollywood it up a little, Dave. We'll do that in post. Yep, we got that. See you on set. After the Civil War, Reeves, who got married, and ran after, went to Van Buren and he bought a farm. I don't know. I couldn't figure out how that happened. I couldn't find out where he got the money to buy a farm. But after the war, he went and bought a farm. OK. Maybe he won it. Maybe he won it. He wanted to be a farmer and a horse breeder, but that didn't work out. His experience led him elsewhere, and he ended up working as a tracker and a guide for US Marshals. OK. Which makes sense because of the Native American experience that he had. He learned how to track, and he knew the land. Right. The Indian Territory was, at this point, very, very lawless. Criminals were pouring into the territory from all over the US, and death was a constant possibility. Quote. You could just lose your life over your hat, your horse, your gun, your woman, any damn thing. The Indian Territory was where the majority of Deputy US Marshals had been killed in the line of duty in the history of the Marshals Service. Over 130 were killed in the Indian Territory, and Indian policemen were getting killed as well. Some say it was the greatest battleground between crime and law in the history of the United States of America. Well, that is quite a statement. Ha ha ha! There were Native American police officers? Yeah. So they had reservations. For how many? For, no, six. The Smiths are coming. OK, gotcha. Ha ha ha! So in the territory, there were fugitives, and murders, and bank robbers, and bootleggers, and castle robbers. Pretty much any criminal one could think of was in the Indian Territory. OK, well, that sounds fun. It was also a place where criminals could go and just change their names. Just cut. They would just say, hey, I'm Rex Francis now. Hey, nice to meet you, Rex. Hi. You look familiar. Oh, yeah. Hi. Sure your name's Rex? Yep. Yep. How do you spell it? R-Y-A. Can I see some ID? You know what, I left it in the bank. Get over here. Hi. Hey. Hi, I'm Rex. No, we did this. Oh. I'm the same guy. Oh, hi. Oh, sorry, I'm Jeff. What? Yep. My name's Jeff. I'm a poet. OK. Got to go. Got to go. I'm meeting Bobby over there. That guy's name's not Bobby. Now it is. This is where we change names. This is where it. Children in the area had a song. Children. Oh, what was your name in the States? Was it Johnson or Thompson or Bates? Did you kill your wife or fly for your life? Say what was your name in the States? Wow. What? Just a kids song? Kids song. Catchy. Just kiddies. Little kids singing about killing your wife. And changing your identity because you did it. Regular kid stuff. Kid shit. Federal court for the Western District of Arkansas was moved to Fort Smith in 1871. Isaac C. Parker was made the federal judge in 1875. His nickname was the Hanging Judge. Before that, it doesn't take a lot of shit, Judge. Short trigger judge. Never saw a guy. He didn't want to kill Judge. He had a lot of nicknames. They seem to get clearer. Before that, it was the Hanging Judge. They seem to get clearer. Before that, it was Bob. Wait a minute. Was it Rex before that? It was Rex. God damn it. It's Rex again? Parker ordered his chief marshal to hire 200 deputy marshals to cover the almost 75,000 square miles of Indian territory. It's quite a large area. It's big. It's a big area. It's big. Bass had learned to track. He knew the area. He could speak the native languages and was good with a gun. So he was perfect. Parker hired Bass Reeves, making him one of the first, if not the very first, black deputy US marshal west of the Mississippi. This needs to be a movie. Fucking he's the first guy. That's awesome. Yeah. Must be really weird, though, because you can't get word out on that super easily. It won't spread that fast. So for the first time that a white person sees him, it's probably like, is this Halloween, motherfucker? What is this? Freaky Friday. Is that what they call it? Freaky Friday? Freaky Friday. He was a bass was not as good with a pistol as he was with a rifle. So a marshal named Landon taught him the best way to handle a pistol. And bass practiced every single day until his skill with a revolver matched his skill with his rifle. Reeves would ride out into Indian territory with a pocketful of warrants, a cook, a chuck wagon, and a single posse man for backup. Posse man, posse man. He used the skills he had learned from the Seminoles to track men while leaving no trail. OK. There was no calling for backup back then. Obviously, there wasn't. There wasn't? Radio. Hey, boys, come out by the old creek. Could you get some feathers down here? There's nothing. It wasn't there? No, that one. You might want to double check. You had to deal with whatever came at you. Often, marshals would be ambushed at night while they were sleeping and killed. Fun. That's how I want to go. Yeah. Reeves was illiterate, so he had to memorize all the warrants before he left. Boy, that seems so much harder. Also, you had to keep them in order so you knew which one was which. Jesus Christ. Breeze is your enemy. Fucking learn to read. The amount of time you're spending memorizing all these fucking warrants, why don't you learn how to read them? Shit, I forgot all of them again. Shit. Hey, I'm back. So one more time. Where are all your criminals? That's a long story. Why was it a long story? Where are the criminals? You went out for fucking seven days. Can we run through the names again? Fuck, Bats. No, no, listen. It's not what you think. Can't you just learn to read? Yeah. Oh my god. I don't know why we keep you on. OK, the gun's good. The names, please. It's Bob Rex. Bob Rex. Wait a minute. Wait a god damn minute. Not only was it a dangerous place to be a lawman, but there were also jurisdictional complications. Like, he could arrest a Native American who committed a crime against a white or a black, but he couldn't arrest a Native American who committed a crime against another Native American. Huh. Then that's where the Native American police would. Right. That's out of your jurisdiction. Yeah, but I'm right here and I saw it. Nah. Nah. Nope. We're going to need the chief of chief to come in. Reeves wouldn't just track down people on the warrants. He could also make on the spot arrests for serious crimes like murder, assault, arson, rape, robbery, and incest. Fun list. Yeah. And marshals were paid per arrest. So that's pretty good incentive. Yep. No, he was fucking his sister, sure. Feels like it's still similar. No, this guy was fucking his sister. I swear to god. Yeah, I saw him. So can I get some money for this guy? Give me money for this sister fucker. I didn't do shit. Shut up. They also got a per diem fee and money for feeding prisoners they were transporting. They would go on 30 day journeys to make arrests. This is a great job. Jesus Christ. This is a great job. It's not much of a life. No, it's horrible. All right, well, this will take two years. See you guys in two years. I memorized the 12 names. Bass's first kill came when he was arresting a bootlegger and his armed bodyguard. They were selling whiskey from a horse drawn wagon. Bass approached and the bootlegger raised his hands. But the gunman was not happy that he was being arrested by a black man. That's the situation we all feared. Someone not respecting the badge. Right? Yeah. Quote, a black badge don't mean a damn thing to me. He swung his rifle towards Bass, but he didn't have time to connect. As he swung the rifle, Bass fired two shots into his chest. Jeez. He was dead before he fell over from the driver's seat. So fuck with Bass. It's hard to tell that for sure, though. Gotta take the pulse on the way out. Well, I think that there's a look in your eyes. Maybe a wink. A wink. Have you heard of the death wink? No, I didn't know about that. Yeah, when people get shot in the chest, right before they die, they wink. I think he was just being cute. No, he's dead, Charlie. No, that's a death wink. 80 miles west of Fort Smith, there was a place known as the Deadline. When a deputy marshal from Fort Smith crossed the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas railroad tracks, he was taking his life in his hands. On every trail. It's always railroad tracks. Yeah. Even now. Yeah. It's always the other side of the tracks. Yeah, it's still the same. They're fucking tracks. They fucked everything up. I don't know what happens. On every trail, there would be small cards posted warning particular deputies that if they crossed the Deadline, they would be killed. Can't say they weren't up front. So there's just this place where there's just cards like, Marshal Frank Gibbons, if you step over this line, I shall kill ye. Well, just got to keep going. Here I go. Nope. Bass Reaves had a dozen of these cards for him, and he did not take them lightly. Smart. Yeah. Bass Reaves was said to be meaner than he was. He probably didn't know what they said. No, he was like, look at these cute cards. Look, someone said my name again. Someone said my name again. I think it's this tree's birthday, too. Happy birthday, dear Bass Reaves. The Marshal's an idiot. Bass Reaves was said to be meaner than anyone he tried to catch. That was pretty much standard for Marshals back then. They were more frightening than the criminals they were hunting. That's interesting. That makes sense, right? It's interesting. Who else would go fucking hunt a criminal that he killed so much? Psychopaths. Some of them had been outlaws themselves previously and now had a badge. That's weird, too. Yeah. Frank, I didn't know you were a Marshal now. Yeah, my name's Rex. When are you going to get the hell out of here? Reaves had a reputation and was very respected by the Indian nations. Sometimes Reaves would haul back 15 prisoners at a time, many of whom were murderers. Jeez. In one famous incident, Reaves and another Marshal put a stop to a race war in Braggs, Texas. Wow. They arrested 25 men, black and white, who had taken part in the attacks. That's got to be so weird. Just thinking of the time, white people were probably just like, what the hell is he doing to us? How does it? Why am I in the middle of a race war? I can't be arrested by a black man. The whole point of a race war is that I don't get arrested by blacks. I mean, really. He's like, no, you don't understand. I don't respect you. You can't arrest me. I'm killing your cunt. I don't believe in your rights. I don't even think that you're a human, sir. I choose to wave that right. Did you just call him sir? I'm very confused about our race war. Oh, shit. Another time Reeves rode into a lynch mob as they were hanging a prisoner that they had caught. And he rode right into the middle of the angry mob, took the prisoner, and rode off without ever saying a word. People were like, what? I guess this is how. What? I guess this is happening. Did the black guy just take? Did a silent black man just come through here and take our prisoner? I've been seeing a lot of them lately. God damn silent black man. Terrifying. We should have a race war. Yeah. Reeves was so about the law that he even arrested the minister who baptized him for selling illegal liquor. He was like, I baptized you. I put you in the water. Sorry, sir. Sorry, father. Do I get any? Is there like any get energy on a free card? Shut up. Shut up. Oh, fuck. You're a fucking son of a bitch. Classic bassehole. You son of a bitch. He was arrested. He also arrested his own son, Ben. Who does that? He arrests everybody. Your son. He's fucking Bas Reeves. Take no shit, Reeves. Hey, just ground me. You're under arrest, fuckface. Ah, it was a prank. It's not his name on the warrant. Fucking learn to read. Just plain game. I can't believe we got him to arrest his own son. He arrested his cat. He's an idiot. Sorry, Mittens. No, seriously. You're going downtown. I told him to arrest a tree. He did. Oh, shit. He brought it back. This one didn't go easy, boys. So he arrested his own son who had been charged with killing his wife. His son was convicted and given life in prison at Leavenworth. I guess I should have waited for the crime. When you put it like that. Yeah, all right. The highest moment of his career came against robber Bob Dozier. Dozier had been a farmer who, by choice, left that profession to become a criminal. Interesting. This is so boring with the corn and then the corn. I hate security. And then the corn and then the corn. I want to rape and murder. I'm off. Well, mom, I'm off. I'm going to town to rape and murder. But you're a farmer. I don't think that goes with rape and murder. I'm going to town to commit some crime. Going to have myself a real good time. I'm going to rape and I'm going to murder. I'm going to have some fun. I'm going to do what I want to do till my day's done. Just skipping stones. A little bluebird lands on his finger. Well, hey there, bluebird. Hey, criminal mascot. So yeah. So Dozier did pretty much everything. Bank rob, robbing, cattle wrestling, swimming, holding up stage coaches. Cattle wrestling? Cattle wrestling. Wrestling. Wrestling. OK. I was like, wrestling is a sport. I also he wrestled horses and he was wanted for a long time. Reeves and a posse tracked him and caught up with Dozier in 1891 on a steep, thickly wooded ravine during a thunderstorm. When they reached the bottom of the ravine, there was a shotgun blast which whizzed past Bass's head. Everyone jumped off their horses and made for the trees. Bass saw a man slowly moving from tree to tree and shot him. That man fell down. But there was still one left. Now Bass's position had been given away by the gunshot. So he jerked up right, took a step away from the tree, and fell to the ground as if he had been shot. That's not like that. He was quiet for several minutes. And then Dozier stepped out and laughed, thinking Bass was dead and the posse had run off. OK. Can we have a timeout real quick? So I get I like Bass's thinking. I like that thinking. I always like that sort. But if there's no gunshot, did he shoot his gun when he did it? I think that, yeah, he shot the other guy. He shot the guy. But then when he fell and pretended to get shot, did anyone shoot? But Dozier might have thought the gunshot was for Bass. OK. I'm assuming. OK. Either way, pretty quick thinking. Yeah, for sure. He's doing that. I'm missing flights. Right? Yeah, smart. Dozier then started to approach Bass. When he got close, Bass rose up and told him to drop his gun. Dozier thought for a moment, then dropped into a crouch and tried to shoot. Bass pulled the trigger and shot Dozier in the neck, killing him instantly. What if he just thought he misheard him? I said drop your gun. No, don't drop and shoot. No, you said, no, you said, stop shooting. That's crazy. Yeah. He's no bad ass. No fucking joke. That's what I like to call Bazazz. OK. He also has had to deal with racism. One time a group of marshals were transporting a group of federal prisoners to the penitentiary. One man watching took exception to a black man with a gun issuing orders to white folks, even though they're criminal. Yeah. These are days when that doesn't matter. And the bystander was very vocal about it. Then a local police officer agreed with him. Interesting. The cop pulled his gun and pointed it at Bass. And then Bass pulled his gun. They were ready to shoot each other when a senior deputy marshal stepped in between them to prevent the two lawmen from killing each other, or at least from Bass killing the white cop. Yeah. How great would that have been if they'd fucking shot each other? But that's what I guess. I mean, I guess the idea is that you just, like everything else, it'll get more normal. But this is like he's the Jackie Robinson of black cops. Yeah, basically. Right. Reeves' reputation grew so much that criminals had nightmares about him. There's a story in a Texas newspaper about a man who had tried to set his fiance on fire. Well, you know how stressful weddings can be. Oh my god. Everything was just the flowers. And we got to have my brother-in-law to be there inside all his kids. And you know. You can't invite all your friends. How many groomsmen are you going to have? That's it, Shelley. I'm going to set you on fire. That is such a crazy way to try to kill someone. The crime is tried to set her on fire. Yeah, right. I forgot the matches. So he wasn't good at it. How do you, how can you be bad at it? I don't know. So the guy is wanted. And he went to sleep that evening. He had a nightmare that Basri had shot him while he was trying to escape. And he went to the jail and turned himself in. So just his existence was making criminals stop. He's like Sheriff Freddy Krueger. Look at that cat. God damn glorious. Just strutting around on the pink collar. It's a red bandana, dude. He's a blood. In 1884, the Bunter brothers were terrorizing the Indian territory. They were thieves and cops. Another cake, motherfuckers. I don't know if it's that kind of Bunter. I don't know. We made you a pound cake, baby. It's fine. You can just leave it right here. Leave it here. Are you enjoying your cakes from the Bunter brothers? Yeah, they're good. Oh, are they? Well, thank you. We'll be back. Sucker. Come on, brother. Yeah. It's very good cake. Exactly. Enjoy it. I don't think these guys. Eat it with some milk, bitch. Yeah. OK. We're the Bunners. Thank you, buddy. OK. We make bun and pound cake. OK. I love that. Yeah, we make mainly buns. All right. Yeah. They were thieves and cop killers. Bats came across them one day on a trail. The brothers pointed their guns at him and ordered him off his horse. As he stepped close, they could see the badge on his coat. The oldest brother asked Bass what he was doing there. And Bass replied, well, I've come to arrest you. Got the warrant right here. Calm. The weird casualness that freaks criminals out. Yeah. Yeah, I'm here to get you guys. But we're pointing guns. We're the most badass motherfuckers in the whole area. We're the most badass. There's three of us. Super badass. Oh, there's three? Yeah. Super badass, too. See the blunder triplets. Bass then took out the warrant and handed it to the eldest. Can you read that? Yeah. What does this say? Does that say your name? I got them all mixed up in the. It says Clemens. Damn it. What about this one? Rex. Ah! The brothers looked at the warrant and the long list of crimes of which they were accused. While they were doing that, Bass pulled out his Colt 45 and fired two shots. Just at him? Yes. He handed it to him. And they started reading it. Hey, I never remembered Larson. Ow! And he shot two of them. He shot two of them? Yeah. Right in the chest. In the chest? Two of the bunter brothers fell dead. The older appointed his gun at Bass. But before he could pull the trigger, Bass grabbed the gun, pushed it into the air, and then pistol whipped him with his own gun until he was knocked out. Ooh. Mm. That was the end of the bunter brothers. Mm. That was fast. That was good. No more cakes. Another famous outlaw was Jim Webb, who was an arsonist and a murderer. Bass caught up to him at a ranch house. Webb pulled a loaded revolver, and Bass just smacked it away. Jeez. Then he put Webb in a chokehold with his left hand and drew his gun with his right hand, which he pointed at Webb's face. So like noogies with a gun. Well, noogies with a gun. That's actually the name of the movie. Right. Noogies with a gun. Guys, the title's not testing well. Is his name Noogies? No. No, Noogies is what, you know, like a crazy uncle gives a nephew. Because it sounds like his name is Noogies with a gun. No, no. And now that I'm thinking about it, I think we might be dipping in some racial territory that is somewhat sensitive. Wait, wait, wait. Right then, Webb's partner, Frank Smith, shot at Reeves. He missed him with both shots. Bass turned and shot Smith in the gut. Smith died on the way back in the wagon. Webb was given bail. And of course, Bass tracked him down again. This time, when Webb saw him coming, he immediately started shooting. He shot Bass's hat and the reins of his horse. Bass just jumped off his horse and quickly put three bullets in Webb's. Jeez. Good Lord. Right? Yeah. Yeah, he's the fucking schiznit. Reeves wasn't a perfect lawman, though. In April 1884, Reeves shot his cook, William Leach, while he was out on patrol. This goulash is so bad, it's a crime. That's crazy. Gets the staff in line, though. So what happened to your goulash? Yeah. OK. That's fair. So then the next time you're interviewing a cook, what happened to the last guy? I killed him. Don't like goulash. Yeah, anyway. Cold soup and go fuck itself. I'm Bass Reeves, god damn it. I don't like thick soup. Bass Reeves likes hot soup. I don't like thick, cold soups. Wounded, Leach slowly died. There was an inquest, but Bass avoided being charged. But two years later, in 1886, the US Attorney's office was filled by a Democrat. Being the pro-slave party, they were not big on black guys who had shot white guys. So Reeves was then arrested for killing Leach. I mean, it's hard to pick a side here. They're both bullshit. His badge was taken away, and he was charged with murder. He sat in jail for three months awaiting trial. There was different testimony. One man said Reeves and Leach had argued over a stray dog, and that's why Reeves had shot him. Well, I think we're all hoping that it's that one. I think someone who wrote the movie Silverado read the Bass Reeves story. Have you seen this puppy? Have you seen Silverado? No. That's one of the storylines is that two guys used to ride together, and they got into a fight over a stray dog. What is the fight? What do you mean, of whose dog it was? Well, one guy. Yeah, they picked up a dog while they were committing crimes, and it was running with them. And then at some point, one of the dogs got in a horse's way, and the guy shot him, and then they had a fight over it, and they stopped being partners. Jesus. Trust me. OK. But Reeves and other witnesses said it was an accidental shooting, that his rifle had gone off while Reeves was trying to dig a faulty cartridge out of the chamber with a knife. Both compelling. If your gun is fucked up, you fucking stab it with a knife. Yeah, you kill it with a knife. I'm going to attack this guy with my knife. Because that's because there was just one guy that said it was a stray dog, and everyone else said that they'd seen the knife thing, he was acquitted of murder. But he was financially ruined by the trial. He had to sell his home to pay his legal fees. The trial had clearly been racially motivated, but Bass was not going to back down from being a marshal and picked up his career where it left off. But the push against black men working as Fort Smith employees was gaining steam. The Confederates came back into power in the 1890s, and Reeves was transferred to the Federal Court in Paris, Texas to get away from the climate. He retired from the marshal service in 1907 and joined a police force in Muscogee, Oklahoma. He died of Breit's disease January 1910. That's a kidney. I thought someone didn't close the blinds. No, it was really too bright. OK. Close those blinds. He killed a lot of black guys. Vampires. Vampires. Suffer from Breit's disease a lot. He was written about in papers all over the country as a shining example of law and order in the West. Today, Reeves' grave cannot be located. He brought in over 3,000 criminals and killed 14 during his career as a marshal. He was never shot except for in his hat. Where's his hat buried? Wow. That did not make her. That's crazy. Yeah. That's a movie. How is that not a movie? How is Bass Reeves not a fucking movie? That's just great. Yeah. I mean, it is a lit. Like, there is just something gratifying about, like, in Django and Chain, just watching, like, a black man get revenge on his people. That's something that's just delightful. Ugh. I could keep eating, like a goulash. Like a goulash. Yeah. I love you. Not you, the fan. Excuse me? At the show Saturday night, I got on stage. And as soon as I got up, there was silence. Someone goes, boy, she pops. Boy, she pops. And that, it's like, those are things that you don't, like, I mean, that's what I said right away. I was like, oh, that's great. How are you? And then you're like, there's a room full of people. Like, what the hell just happened? I have no idea what's happening. Yeah. Yeah, I got a weird fan. Hey. They were very sweet. All right, we sign cards. Yeah.