 Hola, you are listening to the dollop. This is a American history podcast. Each week, I gave Anthony read a story from American history to my friend Gareth Reynolds, who on a bi weekly basis has no idea what the topic is going to be about. Trust me, trust me, trust me, trust me on this one. God, you want to look at it? I'll do one bump. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gero. They've okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling podcast. Okay. You are queen fakie of made up town. All hail queen of shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Hi, Gary. No, I see done my friend. No, no. Okay, so we're, uh, it might be a little bit of a echo because we're in my office and I expected to use a back room, but someone locked the back room. So we're in a big open space. We're basically recording in an office barn. Yeah. We're recording in the worst possible thing you can record in. So if you hear owls, owls could be owls, um, other barn stuff. I can't think of, Hey, obviously, Hey comes to mind. Pitchforks. But then I think that's, Hey, adjacent. Hey, Jason. Armenians. Okay. This took a turn fast and I want you to have the option to back away from that. Okay. I'm backing away from that. Thank you. Backing away. But if you will, if there are Armenians in a barn, they're probably farm farm minions. That's what I meant. Farming Indians. Did I not say farm minions? Did you say for me? I think I said farm minions. You said Armenians. Oh no. I meant farm minions. Hey, um, Gary, Gareth, we've been over and over this. We've been over and over and over this. How many times must we go over this? We keep going over this. You keep saying the wrong name. My name is Gareth, not Gary. It has a few letters in common, but many different too. As many in common as there are different. Assuming you don't spell Gary with an E. Gareth, G-A-R-E-T-H, Welsh, Gareth. Gary, this podcast is brought to you by our subscribers on Patreon. We want to thank each and every one of you for subscribing. You guys are awesome. June 22nd, 1903. John Dillinger was born in Indianapolis, Indiana. His mother died when he was three from a stroke. Sure. Well, why not? It wouldn't be a dollop. Nope. Without that sweet action. Got to die early. John's dad was a churchgoing man who would occasionally hit young John for acting out. Sure. Like God says. Yeah, God tells you to do that. Yeah. And then just- On the eighth day, he was beating. And then on the ninth day, he'd give him money to go buy treats. Yeah. Because he felt bad. It's exactly how God did it. Go buy yourself something nice. Sorry about your eye. Sorry about your eye, kid. You know, I can get so out of hand. I created everything. It's like a lot of pressure. You know what I mean? You don't know, kid. There you are. You're like, I'm swamped. Some days I got to make a great rain. Some days I got to make a big fire. Sometimes, yeah, it's a lot. I don't mean to come home and take it out on you. Okay? Now here, go get yourself something nice. When? I'm God, okay? It's me, God. Leather jacket wearing God. Is it weird that I'm wearing a crucifix around my neck? Boom, it's me, God. Wait, is God Al Pacino? Whoa. Or is he young John Travolta? Yeah, it's kind of like I'm Andrew Dice Travolta. I'm God. Boom, baby. Come on. It's me, God. Whoo. It's lonely up here. So much creating to do. If you catch God, you get three wishes. That's true. All right, you've done it. What do you like? What were your three wishes? Candy. If you catch God. Gotcha. That's true. Gotcha, God. Oh, shit. All right, you get three. Okay, hurry up. First wish, there is no God. Didn't count on that one, did you, God? So Dillinger quit school at 16 because he was bored. Okay, made it pretty far. Yeah, considering his life of crime began on July 21, 1923, when he stole a sedan. Okay. He was arrested, but managed to slip away from the cops. The next day he joined the Navy. Wow, that is that'll teach you. That's why you got to get them. You guys like a fish. Yeah, once you have them on the line, get them in. Now he's on a boat. Yeah, it's gone. But that wasn't the right life for him. And he jumped ship after five months. He was dishonorably discharged. Does that mean he literally jumped ship? I you know what it said jumped ship and the thing I was reading your Navy, it would make me think that that you jumped ship. I hope he actually did jump ship. I mean, I think it is. I think you can call it jumping ship if you just leave the ship doesn't mean you have to jump off the ship. I'm gonna picture he jumped off the ship. Okay, that's okay with everybody. Go go. Back in Indiana, he met married barrel hoveas. He is that a whiskey that was in a barrel. Um, it's a lady. This is my wife. John, that's just a barrel with a wig on it. She's pretty. She's got a area for me. My love. He tried to get out of here. My dear. No, come on. Okay, I'm gonna cry. Let me take your cork out. He tried to go straight and worked in an upholstery shop. Okay. He also played baseball on a local team. Okay. Well, one day a guy on the team told him about a local grocer who would carry his money each day after closing up. Okay. So Dillinger tried to rob him. Obviously, there was a struggle. Okay, the gun went off. He thought he'd killed the grocer. So he ran, but the grocer wasn't shot. And he quickly called the cops and Dillinger was caught. Check. You want to see blood before you run. Right. Or anything. Or a guy go, oh, yeah, I'm dying. Look at all this blood instead of like a guy dropping his turnips. Yeah. He is a grocer. He had so he had the book thrown on him. He got 10 to 20 years for that crime. Okay, which is for that which is really big substantial that he was in jail for a couple years that his wife left him. He was devastated. They got what you got to stay out. You said till death do us part. That's what I'm talking about. This is like basically a test of that. Right. Do you love me? I'm going to be 20 20 20 20. We'll see 20. In prison he met famous criminals and bank robbers like Harry Pierpont and Homer von Meter. We did one on Harry Pierpont. Sure. Sure. We did. They formed a gang and set about breaking each other out of prison until they were all free. So one guy get out and he'd break the other guy out. You know, that'll do right. Then they went on a bank robbing spree fun. The Pierpont gang as they were called became quite well known. Newspapers wrote about the exploits. They were described as shadowy criminals who wore dark overcoats and hats with their brims pulled down to hide their identities. Jesus, that is not what you want to see. No, it's terrifying. But that was kind of like that. So I mean, they almost from a fashion standpoint started to think that's what I'm talking about. You know what I mean? That's what this dollop is about. Oh, finally something we can both sink our teeth and thank you. We're becoming a fashion podcast. Welcome to the follow up. This is a show about fashion in the fall through history. Right here you can see John Dillinger. He's wearing a lovely pea coat look. You can see that's got two to three buttons on it. Are you doing James? There we are. And you can see he's got the brim of his hat pulled down suggesting boy there's more than meets the eye with this one ladies. Coming up next. Dillinger read all the stories and saved all the press clippings of their you know, adventures. Yeah, sure. They kept what were basically business hours while they lived in Chicago. They had growth like they'd plot their crimes during the day and then they go out right. It's five. Five quit and time. I'm beating traffic tonight guys. That's it. They all had girlfriends and wives and they only drank during off hours. Wow. Discipline. Discipline. That's what matters when you're a writer. In 1933 they decided to vacation in Florida. Okay. Like bank robbers do. Sure. Yeah. But before they left one of the gangs shot and killed the police officer. That does put a damp damper on plans sometimes. The Chicago Police Department then created an elite squad they named the Dillinger squad. The gang briefly returned to Chicago and decided instead to go to Arizona because it was getting a little too hot in the Windy City. No Dillinger gang in Arizona. No squad. Gang. No they're the gang. The squad is at the Dillinger squad is after them. They're the Dillinger gang. Right. Dillinger's on the squad. Understood. Proceed. But before they left Dillinger had a robbery go bad and he shot and killed the police officer William Patrick O'Malley. Oh boy. It's weird that there's an Irish cop. Oh he shot me right in the stereotype. Oh I've been Dillinger'd. Oh. Stereotype. I just got that. I just got it. It took me. It's after I said my thing. Your thing was better. Look I've been there. I get it. A lot of people are mad right now that I talk. No no no. No that happens. That's how it works. You have a thought in your head and you're like this will win. And then I've done that when I was listening back to the ship. There were many times. Yeah many times where you'd be leading something that would be good and I'd be like sorry Dave I've got a one liner that might go nowhere. They fled Arizona where they were all caught pretty quickly. OK. Different states wanted to prosecute different gang members for different things. Dillinger was to go back to Indiana and stand trial for the murder of O'Malley after he stood trial for his crimes in Arizona. While he was awaiting trial in Arizona he was placed in Crown Point Prison which was deemed inescapable. Uh huh. He promptly escaped and stole. Now they don't. What do they give it after. There's different versions of how he escaped. Some said he paid someone off. Some said he painted a piece of wood to make make it look like a gun. Like they're a different. I like that one. That's obviously the best one. Yeah. Stick him up. Hold on. He's got a gun. How'd you get that Dillinger. Boy it's a skinny one too huh. Real skinny mini. It's like a pencil gun. Doesn't even have a barrel. What's your angle Dillinger. I can't even see bullets. That looks like that trigger doesn't move. Alright Dillinger. Nobody's gonna get hurt. Relax Dillinger. Relax. Alright look look look. I understand you can't cock it. Now move on Dillinger. Nobody wants to get hurt by that gun. He's got some sort of future gun gentlemen. Everyone relax Dillinger. Now come on. Go ahead now. Just don't fire that future gun at any of us. Please. Obviously it's as thick as a piece of spaghetti but still. The more I look at it the more it looks like a black twig. But still come on Dillinger. None of this bullshit Dillinger. Just move on now. None of us want to get injured Dillinger. Come on now. How you doing. Get tired. Dave put his mic down almost being like how long you gonna go fuck face. And I was like for a while. So after you escaped he stole the sheriff's car and drove back to Illinois. Just to like. Well I'm a bad ass. I might as well do this. Yeah. But in doing so he finally committed. Wait he from where to where. From Arizona to Illinois. He drove a sheriff's car. Yeah. What would you do. Probably be like take one that they won't try to pull over when they notice it's not a sheriff. Yeah but I don't know what kind of communication they had back then. True. Like if there's an all points bulletin I doubt it. Much much easier time like to be a. I mean like. Oh yeah. You just. The weight on the scales was so much like it harder to determine you'd be like I could probably get away with it. Can I kill a couple of guys and just hang in a bank. I think I could. Yeah. So but in stealing the car and driving across state lines he finally committed a felony and now the FBI wanted him. OK. Don't you put together another gang in Chicago and went on a crime spree robbing banks all over the Midwest. The FBI was hot on their tail the whole time though. So they went to Wisconsin to hole up. There. There. They were informed on and then they had a shootout with the FBI but escaped after killing one FBI agent and a civilian. Oh boy. Now the FBI really wanted Dillinger. Sure. And he was called public enemy number one. Yeah. He was famous. So hiding became quite difficult. Right. He then had plastic surgery done by a mob doctor which a mobder a mobder which he didn't like and thought it looked horrible. What. What did he get done. I guess I talk or something. So what they've done is I've given you a second nose and I removed an ear. No no no no nose is one ear. No no no no one will ever know that you were John Dillinger. Goodbye John Dillinger. Hello double nose. I don't. Why. Hey look where did you get the nose. I took my own off. Look that's why those bandages I put on your ear here. What the I don't know. I'm not gonna lie. I'm drunk and not really a doctor Then a month later He robbed another bank with his gang and another police officer was shot and killed but they made away with 30,000 So that time I think what you want to do is stop killing the cops Well, you know, they keep coming cut that out at some point. Okay around this time I'm diligent a girlfriend who introduced him to a woman named Anna Sage She was a Romanian immigrant who had gotten divorced and ended up working as a prostitute for the mob Okay, so that means after a divorce sure we oh look all women go through that. Yeah, it's the mob prostitute phase Yeah, it's part of the grieving think it's the seventh step currently She found herself under investigation by the immigration and naturalization service and was looking at being deported Somehow she became friendly with a city detective and told him about her problems and he hooked her up with the local FBI agent Melvin purpose She offered to give up Dillinger and returned for nixing the Deportation right? Yeah Purvis got together a group of FBI agents and hired guns keeping the Chicago PD completely out of it because they couldn't be trusted And on July 22nd 1934 Sage told Purvis that she and Dillinger were going to a local movie theater to see a film Agents were posted outside agent Purvis was standing near the theater entrance when Dillinger walked out He was with Sage and his girlfriend one lady on each arm Sage I mean Dillinger and Purvis made eye contact And then he walked away and as they walked down the street Purvis pulled out his gun and yelled stick him up Johnny We got you surrounded Those those before it was like hacky right right like that was the time stick him up Johnny That was the big it's fucking amazing. We got you so right like it was actually what was happening Dillinger tried to run and he reached for his gun He was shot four times the one that killed him entered at the base of his neck and traveled up hitting the second vertebrae Then exited below his right eye a crowd formed around him People took out their handkerchiefs and soaked up his blood as a delightful keepsake. Oh, what the fuck we are so weird We are so weird That is such a weird like can you imagine who's the first guy who thought of that? It's just a mad imagine imagine in this day and I mean you would be like I gotta get some of that I mean what don't drink it put it a handkerchief in there you fool. I didn't bring my hand camera stiff my face in it smart Smart put it in your mouth until you can find a hanky to spit it onto hey, what about this? What if the cops are like hey everybody back? That'd be interesting Fucking crazy. Oh, no look at all this blood Anyone else thinking souvenirs? Stocking stuffers. I have a store across the Street I am going to sell these come get you dill rags dill rags Dillinger was then taken to Alexia Brothers Hospital Alexia Brothers Hospital and pronounced dead he was then taken to the Cook County morgue the crowd followed his body To Alex Brothers Hospital and then to the morgue and even into the post-mortem room Where they're not doors in this time Just before doors were invented Let's keep going. Hey, we're actually supposed to just cremate him now I didn't get to dab any don't turn it on my husband's in the oven taking the thoughts I Just want to I didn't get to dab something in and everyone else got to dab stuff Yeah, if it's possible if I could just get a little feces for the road just to feel like I was a part of it I put can I put my finger in his eye absolutely ma'am absolutely you can do that. That's why it's a morgue come on Everyone put your hands on what we're gonna Do is we're gonna all put our hands on him and the last person to have one hand on gets him so Hundreds of others waited around outside until late in the night hoping to see the body of Dillinger The next day his body was taken to the McCready fumer home where an estimated 15,000 people walked past to get a nice look Wow, that's so crazy Also for death masks were made that day Go on and this is where the post life of Dillinger takes form It started when he was shot or maybe before Dillinger being a bit of a celebrity and clearly a bad boy Hello So something sexy about him mm-hmm sure but when he was shot with a woman on each arm shit went into overdrive The press went crazy with stories about the woman in red who betrayed him They said he lived as he died with a smile on his face and a woman on each arm He instantly became a big-time ladies man Wait retro at pop posthumous basically like he got shot with two ladies on him come on This guy was a pimp for his whole life He's amazing Then came the photo Okay, as the crowds walked past and got a good look at the body in the morgue a photographer snapped a shot Now it's a side. It's a side view shot profile. It's a side view shot profile it's a pro Okay, I mean if you want to use the actual terms profile it's a profile what was in the foreground I have a bit of an eye Wait what huh was I supposed to get that mm-hmm? So it's a profile and he is in the morgue and And that's not here's here's one more ladies are walking by him dressed in bathing suits whoa what the Well they you know they were probably at a pool and then no no no no don't even say that doesn't help Don't even talk don't even dry yourself come to the morgue Stacey Doll yourself up he's single you know Okay, so the photo happens so it's a profile shot What is it and the crowds walking past and they're all looking at the body and Don't just on a board his body is under a sheet you mean a gun his body everything but the head is under a sheet Okay, and the board is tilted right like a 45 degree angle almost So his feet are low and his head are up and under the sheet something very large is protruding up Oh, no wait a minute. Are you telling me what oh? Geez what Dave what? What is this what? Is Dave Now John Dillinger have a huge dead hard on that's what it looks like, but it's actually his hand But it looks like he has a gigantic hard on oh yeah like a huge hard on yeah like a Like you do a dollop about this dick So okay, so So he's propped up and people think they see a huge hard Dillinger now There was no indication or rumors before this that he had a big Johnson right But this picture along with the fact that he was killed with a woman on each arm Made the rumor some newspaper editors actually touched up the photo to remove the giant bulge Okay, I honestly I thought it didn't matter because the legend was born okay so now so now I I can't wait to find out how we handle this because knowing us everyone's gonna be like you gotta die your dick gets big In his own state of Indiana word on the street was that he would lose consciousness when he became aroused Oh my God because it drained all the blood from his brain into his pecker I'm a doctor It was said to be somewhere between 16 and 23 inches Oh my what come on one rumor was that an informant claimed Dillinger would use his huge tool to Call it Uses a weapon to flog women and other unfortunate people. What is he talk? What is happening? This is like William Wallace You never heard that Dillinger used to beat up guys at the dick alright now. Where's the money Frank? Don't make me do it again Don't make me do it Frank. I'll pass out if I get it too hard go ahead do go go Dilly cock Yeah, give it to me Frank. Where's the money? Where's the money? Here's the thing? Here's the money couple of good shots for you, huh? You like when you what is what is huh? I love it. Oh, it's a bitch Yeah, another informant someone get a vagina and look at form it apparently said that even though Dillinger was crazy Well endowed he wasn't a great lover because he didn't have enough blood in his body to support an erection What is that's a competing rumor with the other one where he would pass out? Yeah, but there's either either So I think that the people who've made up these rumors don't know how much blood is in the human body I agree It's not like in the middle of our chests we have like a bottle full of blood and there's two straws going from our dicks to Our brains that and we got to keep a perfect balance You know it all went to my dick his brains out of blood. Are you a doctor? You're not a doctor. I'm not a doctor Dave Okay fair The legend never died, but it just grew stronger in the 70s I mean that couldn't sound more like the situation with him Anyway in the 70s never died it just grew stronger playboy and we magazines wrote articles about Dillinger's huge knob. Oh my god 23 inches by that time the rumors of Dillinger's death and erection had morphed into something even more disturbing what What? If you suck it now you get three wishes like catching God The urban legend was that Dillinger's Johnson had been cut off and preserved in a jar and formaldehyde Which was kept at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History and Dicks now kids look up here on the right You're going to see what looks like a tapeworm, but that's actually the cock of America's most wanted criminal for a stretch The alternate rumor was that Jade Hoover had kept his penis on his desk as a trophy No one Hoover though that could have been that could have been true come on He already had one to deal with that was too much. He doesn't want two dicks in his life. That's true The dick stories became so prominent over time that both the FBI and the Smithsonian were forced to respond Publicly so great that the Smithsonian has to be like we don't have his big hard dick The FBI's official historian John Fox quote it is one of those urban legends It's been around for a long time, but there's no evidence that the corpse was mutilated in any way except for the bullets He was shot with They probably thought his dick was a separate person The Smithsonian went as far as to create a form letter that they would send out when inquiries came in to whom it may concern We do not have the dick Quote we can assure you that the anatomical specimens of John Dillinger are not and have never been in the collection of the Smithsonian Institute Oh my god At the Museum of Health and Medicine on the frequently asked question Section of the museum's website it reads question. Do you have 20th century gangster John Dillinger's penis in the collection? Whoa answer. No, we don't have it, but we get a lot of phone calls asking if we do. Hey I called two days ago Um, yes, is this the Smithsonian? Yes Anyway, I called a couple days ago I talked to somebody who did not know what they were talking about. I'm wondering if there are specific hours When I should come by to see the hard cock of gangster John Dillinger or is it open as much as y'all's other exhibits? Okay, we actually don't have John Dillinger's. Okay, so I guess you're the person I talked to a couple days ago Okay, I have to go sir Why because you got to go hide the dick in the collection Good luck. You're gonna have to dig a pretty big hole sir. I'm coming to check out that penis Please don't you probably painted it to look like an airplane and hung it up in the Wright brothers part Sneaky bastards. I've seen national treasure What huh you stuck around for all that you're crazy click In 1991 the legend of Dillinger's huge penis was discussed On the show the wonder years in 2006 a washington post reporter was given a tour of the collection of human remains in the smithsonian There Daniel Rogers chairman of the smithsonian museum's anthropology department revealed they did have something pertaining to Dillinger His balls his balls Just one his tiny drained balls The other one is in hoovers mouth. It was buried with hoover Uh, so this is quote. It is not a body part. It is made out of rubber or latex I guess you could describe it as a medical model Wait, what? It's not a body part. It's made out of rubber or latex. I guess you could describe it as a medical model It's not a body part. It's made out of rubber or latex. I guess you could describe it as a medical model This is like this is like a riddle, huh? I didn't know there was tell give me one more time. I'm not good at these. Give me one more time It's not a body part, right? But it is made of rubber It's a medical model it's a medical model Rubber medical mod. Wait a minute Okay, no, uh, is this something common what is it? No one knows where it came from and it has never been officially entered into the smithsonian collection It was stored in a jar labeled jay dillinger for years, but that jar broke And it was placed in another jar Roger said quote. It's been around here longer than I have and I've been here for 17 years The reporter asked to see it So he was taken through a maze of hallways full of wooden boxes of specimens A locker was then opened and inside were two jars one was empty But had a label that read jay dillinger fbi transfer si mammals division to anthropology 127 53 The other jar was bigger and filled with water inside was a long narrow pale white object about 16 inches long No, dave the smithsonian employee said quote. It's a synthetic polymer So a piece of plastic no one knows no one knows when it arrived or who sent it. There are no records The belief is that it's just a prank that was based on the rumors What the hell the oh boy? This is So in the smithsonian there's potentially someone has No, it's not even potential someone just made a fake dick How do you know it's fake? Well, we don't but okay. Well, we know it's a fake dick. It's a it's a plastic dick How do you okay your story checks out? So someone Played someone thought it would be funny if they sent the smithsonian 16 and model of dillinger's dick in 1953 So while they don't have the dick they do have a model of the dick. Well, but it's not even a model a dick It's just based on the rumors The guy didn't have a big dick You don't know that I don't know what was under the sheet his arm You know what they say about guys with big arms They're the rock. Yep. They said that This was a dillip This was our first dillip or a dillop we signed course. Well, did you say horse course? Okay, thank course beer. Sure