 Oh, boy. Do you know what that's from? Do it again. It's a comedy. It's something someone does. Strange Brew. Come on. Strange Brew. That's it. You're listening to The Dollop. It's an American history podcast. Each week, I, comedian Dave Anthony, read a story from American history to my friend. Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. He's already on probation. Jose? Yeah. Bad cat. God, do you want to look at a dude? I'll do one button. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become the Tickling Podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. Nicely done, my friend. No. No. So, we want to thank all of our sponsors on Patreon. This podcast is brought to you by our sponsors on Patreon. We thank each and every one of you. You guys are nice. We love you. We're going to kiss your faces. Sweet people. Sweet, sweet people. Check out Jose. It's all out. Oh, gosh. He really is presenting. Jose, company's over. Come on. Oh, I can see it all, Jose. Make him buy you dinner first, baby. Oh, boy. Okay. So, first of all, I love you guys. Huh? Is this a suicide? Can we get into it? May 1848. May 1848? Yeah. Okay. The Mexican-American War officially ended with the signing of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hildago. Mexico ceded the Southwest, which included what is now the state of California. You probably didn't know that because you're from Northern Midwest stock. Sure. Very aggressive early. During the war, the US Army built a fort on a hill overlooking Los Angeles. Now, a fort, this is before forts were things kids made out of pillows. Right. This isn't an actual fort like you would see in the movie Braveheart. Right. This wasn't just sheets and ottomans. No. Right. Okay. This was actually sheets and ottomans. We're pretending. It was built by the US first dragoons and New York volunteers and the Mormon battalion. Okay. Yep. I bet they all got along great. Sure. I mean, yeah. No differences there. Nope. Okay. The war had done its damage to Los Angeles. The US had taken the city, been driven away and retaken it again in 1847. Okay. Most of the well off had abandoned their homes in the area of the fort. Soldiers now rode around on horseback. The locals yelled insults at them. Okay. Interesting. So just riding through Los Angeles and everyone's like, fuck you gringo. Like that kind of shit. Right. Okay. You fucking. Yeah. Raiders. Right. The nation is still out. This land belongs to the Raiders, bro. Fuck you. Try to come here. A local man was given a military escort and sent into the San Bernardino mountains to find timber for a flagpole. Okay. Dolores Studio and her mother and sisters made a flag. Okay. And on July 4th, cans were fired and a proclamation announced that the fort would now be called Fort Moore. Fort Moore. Okay. Raise the flag, blow off some cannons. Sure. Fort Moore now. And that that's the Americans who did the fort that made Fort Moore. Yep. Right. Okay. That was named after Benjamin D. Moore, a soldier who died in the Battle of San Pasqual. Isn't Benjamin Moore paint too? Sure. Yeah. He's also, yeah. He also turned into paint. Oh my God. Yep. This man was made of yellow. He's a magical man. This he'd look great in my kitchen. After he died in the Battle of San Pasqual, he just turned into a liquid form of paint. I want my ashes to be put in a can with a lid and shaken. And put on a wall. And then painted on a wall. Maybe a nursery. Whoa. Someone in your building slammed their door. Yep. You can hear it coming. Angry? All right. Relax. It's actually my Mexican neighbor, so it is sort of now like we're living the dollop a little bit in real life. Maybe we're in the middle of the Battle of San Pasqual right now. It feels like it. The Declaration of Independence was read that day in English and Spanish. Did you have to press four to get it read in Spanish? I don't know, but it would be amazing if some guy wasn't it back on, hey, English only, it's America. Come on. I forgot what country this is. What is this? Oh, wait. Right. Oh, we just took it. I'm sorry. It's okay. I'm sorry. Never mind. Sorry, MB. The flag was raised and then a dance was held with locals and soldiers getting along nicely. Okay. Great. Nothing to see here. Yeah, it's all going good. Sure. At least that was the report. Another said the American commander warned locals that he would cut their heads off if they touched the flag. So that's different. There's a difference between them. Yeah, it seems like just a slight difference. One says it's fine and the other is full of threats of... Decapitation. Decapitation. Right. So it could go either way. Either way. It's one of those six on that sand, no head on the other. Yeah. Things slowly normalized and Fort Moore was decommissioned and abandoned in 1853. People had already started building homes on the hill by then because it had a very nice view. Sure. Since Protestants weren't allowed to be buried in the local Catholic cemeteries, they built an unofficial cemetery on the hill. Okay. Classic. Unofficial cemetery is a weird thing. Yeah, they're kind of strange. They're just throwing people on the ground. It is kind of like a mass grave probably. Yep. In 1853, Andrew... Oh, I love you spell check. It's pages, right? No, no, no. I thought I caught them all, but now I got to find this guy's name. Oh, wow. I did a bunch. Okay. What does it say his name is? Well, I know what his name is. His name is Sefelt. Sefelt. So, I just got to remember that as I read through and it changes. Although this could be a different name. Oh, boy. This is like flu. I thought I found all these, but it's hard to be as great as I am. In 1853, Andrew Soutlet was the first person buried in the cemetery. What? Okay. He was a hunter who was killed by a bear in Malibu Canyon. Well, not a great hunter. The struggle also ended with... I forgot the killing part. The struggle also... I had him in my sights. Ended with the bear being killed. Ooh. A fucking man... A double suicide. A lover's tryst. A lover's... Maul me and I'll shoot you at the same time, Hansel. Ah, bang! So, it's a wash. That's a wash. That's a wash. That's, yeah. The bear was not buried in the cemetery. Interesting. Mm-hmm. Where was he buried? That's speciesism. That is. Soutlet's dog, named Old Buck, was said to have died of grief right at the grave three days after the burial. I never buy that story. It does sound a little bit like... What's that? I never buy the dog died by the grave story. Well, you've seen the dogs go chill by the graves of the owners. Yeah, but not die. Die is weird. They hang there for a couple days and they're like, all right, this is over. I really think he's gone now. I think I'm gonna find a new guy to give me food. Yeah. Or the dog sits. Maybe the dog's really stupid. And he's like, are you gonna feed me? Are you gonna feed? Are you gonna feed me? They probably just want to eat the owner for their last meal. Wouldn't that be great? That's adorable. That's how I want to go. Because they eat me. Judging by the size of them, it'd take maybe two sittings. Soon the cemetery was packed with the dead. There weren't any cemetery regulations and a lot of people were being put in the ground. The city finally took over the area in 1869. At this point, headstones were broken and plots were completely unmarked. The city then banned burials. Wait, so it was just like a terrible cemetery? Yeah, it was basically like a bunch of people. It was like a mass grave. So you're a Protestant, so you can't get buried in any Catholic cemetery. So at that point, California is all Catholic. So they had to just go... Build... They basically made a landfill for humans. Well, they were like Protestants, so they would have a hard time getting an official cemetery in California. So they made a human field. So they just started down with people in a hill up on the... That's great. That's perfect. He's under here somewhere, miss. We'll find him. You'll get the rose to him. Is it him? Was he Asian? Yeah, no. He wasn't. Okay. These are all... Here's some whites. There's a bunch of whites over here. Here we are. He was a regular man or this boy? Like this size? Why are you holding that up? That's an arm? That's a whole boy? That's a boy. Yeah. A baby boy. This is the worst cemetery I've ever been to. You come back. You come back. That's how we should do this. I'll pull some options. I'll pull some options and I'll lay them out for when you come back. I'm going to take off. Very much. Okay. Don't tell anybody about this. Yep. Okay. No, don't worry. It's just the police. I heard something. The hill was a delightful spot, as we've said, with the beautiful view. Right. So parts of the cemetery were sold to the Los Angeles City School District and other rich people who lived in the city. So it's all in plots. They're going to put a school on the Protestant mass grave? Yeah. Did Stephen King write this dollop? In 1882, the first beer brewer of LA, Jacob Philippi, opened a beer garden and sloughed on top of the hill. Everyone enjoyed going to the slough and the rich and the poor. At the end of some drunken nights, some would roll down the hill. It's weird, right? Yep. The whole thing's weird. Okay. From beginning to end. Right. Yep. Because this isn't too far after. It's not too far after. How is it fun to roll down a hill? Well, it's interesting what you're taking issue with. You're taking issue with childlike behavior. Yes. I'm talking about building it on a cemetery. Next came Mary Banning, who was the widow of the man who established LA's port. She turned the slough into a big, fancy house and held many a party. Okay. It became a posh spot in town. Sure. Other first families of Los Angeles built huge homes. Parties were thrown by social groups like the 15 Club. Right. Who were a group of 15 young men and women from the South. And they just were like, there can only be 15 of us. Yeah, basically. Yeah. It's awkward for one guy. Well, 14. No, 16. Huh? Oh, are you saying that it's even men and women and then one guy? Yeah. So what if it's like 13 dudes and two, what if it's like the Smurfs? It's 14 guys and one girl. Utopia. At a party thrown by Miss Banning, a parrot was killed by a guest after it revealed family secrets. Oh, wow. That is amazing. Someone was telling me this story the other day of this parrot. She went over to this dude's house and she knew the parents and she just heard from the kitchen, Jamie, Jamie. And she was like, your mom wants you. He goes, no, it's the parrot. And then the parrot goes, Jamie, get in here. And she was like, is that your dad? He goes, it's a parrot still. I forget what the name of the parrot that lives the longest, but it can do like impressions. Yeah, African Grey. A high school was built on the hill in 1890 run right next to a bunch of gravestones. They're just asking for like thriller like consequences for this. In 1897, a man who lived across the street from the cemetery heard some noise and went out to investigate. Oh, God. There were three Latino men digging. Oh, God. They told them they were looking for buried treasure, which they believe had been buried by American soldiers in 1847 and marked by an iron rod. This is someone's going to take issue with this. The next day, he told everyone he came across the story and soon everyone was saying they had seen the men leaving with a box filled with $20,000 worth of gold. So it's one of those things where one person sees it and then everyone's like, I saw it too. Yeah. Okay. Over time, as Los Angeles grew, Fort Hill more turned out to be a shitty location. It was between downtown and the east side. So it was also buried on bodies, like built on bodies. Yeah, there's bodies on the top. It's not built on bodies. It's a hill and then there's a cemetery up there. Okay. Running down. So in order, the best way to handle it was they built a tunnel under the hill in 1901, the Broadway tunnel. A tunnel that goes under the hill, like through the hill? You've been in Broadway tunnel. I'm sure I have been, but there, and so the bodies are above the tunnel. You're having a hard time with the cemetery part. Yeah. Little weird. It still make me feel weird when I drive by. As it was built, the area was filled with carts and horses and pedestrians. The rich were suddenly not as into living on the hill and many moved away to other areas of Los Angeles. Okay. And then boarding houses. What's that? It's a wind chime, bro. Do you have a wind chime? No, it's out there. What do you mean it's out there? It's not in here, it's out there. It's like someone else's wind chime that's outside? Yeah. But you didn't hang a wind chime? Never. But if I did, I wouldn't expect this amount of guff. I think a man... I have a... Let me just say, there's not a lot of things I judge people about, but a man with a wind chime? Fuck it. How about Hummingbird feeder? That's fine. All right. Got one of those. I do too. All right, partner. I thought you looked familiar. I'm sorry. So boarding houses then replaced the wealthy homes. Okay. But one thing remained the same. The belief that there was buried treasure in what? The hill? Yeah. It's just not good. In 1902, an old Mexican woman who lived near the hill was dying. She asked a friend to come to her deathbed. She then drew a map for her friend and told her it was a treasure map for the gold at Fort Hill Moor. Did she just draw one like you would... Like off the dome? The way you would draw... The way I remember it. Now you're going to have to bear with me. I'm old and dying. Lean your head forward. 20 paces, or was it 40 paces? I scribbled it. You go left. On your face. If you see a body, you're getting warm. She said the treasure had been buried far before the Americans arrived. Okay. Her friend then hired a man with a divining rod to help him find the treasure. What? An ancient metal detector. What? It's fine. Just such a... Metal detector today, douchebag. Divining rods were... Divinity rod. It's a legitimate scientific... Dear Lord, guide the rod. I do love how we really do... Religion puts so much on God. God created so much, and yet the idea that we can bother God with minutiae. Like, now Lord, I know you're busy with everything you're overlooking, but could you help me find this treasure? Lord, I got to find some gold. Give me five minutes, Lord. Give me five minutes of your time, Lordy. I've been praying for you. Give me some cash. Come on, Lord. Hook it up. Just beep. So volunteers dug all night by candlelight in the place the divining rod said the gold was, but they ended up just finding an abandoned drain and finally stopped. The gold fell in the drain. No treasure. So they moved on. Moved on, meaning they moved on with their lives? Yeah, those people left. Okay. With time passes, cars became the way to get around. In 1930, the city started buying up land to expand Spring Street. Some of the hill was to be removed, and to do that, they had to buy a bunch of the old homes. In 1933, plans were made to remove even more of the hill to build a civic center and use the dirt for a landfill to construct Union Station. Okay. So now they're just digging up the hill. Summers of treasure persisted though, and when word that more of the hill will be moved, treasure hunters flocked to the dig site. LA Times columnist Ed Ainsworth wrote, quote, isn't it funny how the early Spaniards seem to do nothing but traipse around the country with jack loads of gold bullion? Yeah, just burying it. Just putting it wherever. To bury it. That's what I did. They're like squirrels with nuts. That's what you do with treasure. It doesn't become treasure until it's in the ground. Really. I mean, buried treasure. Those are kind of synonymous. Yeah. I mean, a treasure seems like something you find. You don't have it. Nobody's like, no, let me take you to the treasure room. They're like, look at my gold. And no one gets paid in treasure. How much should I be making? Half a treasure now? Depends on the treasure, honestly. Not sure what we're finding. Could be a lot of gold. Could be nothing. Listen, a 62-year-old dead woman drew a map. It's real. Yeah, I got a good feeling. Now this guy with a stick is going to find it. Follow me. Don't worry. The Lord's on top of it. Well, this is going to get a little weird. In 1933, was the year a geophysicist and mining engineer G. Warren Schuffelt came to City Hall. He was with two other men, Rex McGarry, an attorney, and Roy Martin. They said they had a map. I'm not going to make a McGarroth joke. It's fine. You don't have to. I feel like it wouldn't be right. No, it's fine, McGarroth. They said they had a map that gave them the location of the Spanish gold. Schuffelt also had something special. He had invented what he said was a radio x-ray machine that could locate gold. OK. So the truth is, around this time, 90% of things that people said were invented were crazy bullshit. So you can't. Wait, you don't believe in the radio x-ray machine? I don't. OK. I think that that's very close-minded. Yeah. And I think that you need to open your mind. I'm good. And allow things in that could be real. No. OK. Newspapers said the Spanish gold was buried during colonial times and that Schuffelt thought he could get it out after 28 feet of shaft was sunk. Well done. It was not that easy. There were boulders blocking the way and lots of mud after the shaft went through the water table. They dug down 50 feet, did not find anything, and they were not allowed to go further because of the city rules. Right. Because, yeah, right. They'd already gone double of what they said they would do. Only 50. Yeah. And they dug 50 feet down, really giving credit to these Spanish diggers, too, for their time. Really, really dug. Really dug. Like, I mean, if you were on this dig, you were like, dude, we're good. No. Keep going. It's... Till we hit lava. Hold on. I'm going to show you the x-ray machine. Oh, I'm excited for this. Oh. Oh, good. So it was a camera with a tube. He looks like he's into it, too. I mean, honestly, it looks like he's panhandling for money with that hat beside him, like, a quarter for the x-ray machine. I mean, it looks like a can with a tube on the bottom. It looks like a man full of bullshit. It does look like a man full of bullshit. So they found no gold, but Schauffelt used his amazing radio x-ray machine to explore the area. Don't worry. Quote, I was over a pattern of tunnels and I mapped out their course, the position of large rooms and the location of the deposits of gold, but I couldn't understand the meaning of it. Great. The three of them... Well, thank you for your help. We're good on this guy, right, everybody? It feels like this guy doesn't know what he's doing, right? The three men left after their permit had expired. That is when Schauffelt met Little Chief Greenleaf, a Hopi Indian... Oh, God. I was hoping for a child. From Arizona. Okay. Little... Little Chief Greenleaf. I mean... It rhymes. Little Chief Greenleaf. Come on down. Sometimes Chief Greenleaf would lecture under the name L. Macklin. Okay. Armed with what he needed, Schauffelt returned to Los Angeles with his two business partners. They told the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors they had an ancient sheepskin treasure map that gave the location of the gold. They again wanted permission to dig. Listen, I'm sure you're thinking we're crazy, a lot of people are, but now we have the map for the treasure. It's on sheepskin. Yes, I've abandoned that crazy x-ray machine too. Who would make a fake map on sheepskin? We met with the adorable Little Chief Greenleaf. Naturally, the city was up for it. Of course. The Board of Supervisors agreed to let him dig if he split the treasure with them 50-50. People are treasure crazy. Well, that's slight corruption. I will say though, if someone came to me with like treasures, like if someone was like, listen, get a little bit of action, just help me find the treasure, I'd do like a little stuff to be like, all right, I'll get like a 5% of the treasure. All they have to do is go, yeah, go ahead and dig. Yeah. That's it. So why not? Yeah. Not good supervising really. Not everyone was on board. A quote Willow Man named Burroughs. A Willow Man? Willow Man, I don't know. I tried to find it out. A Birdman? Willow. I think he's another diviner. From the quote ancient order of Willow switchers. Not helping. Said Schuffelt was wrong. To prove it, Burroughs walked all around the hill with his Willow wand. Oh, sweet God. He's got merch? On the top of the Willow wand, there was an old leather tobacco pouch. He said if the wand found gold, the pouch would dip, but it did not dip. How does it not even dip? There's your proof. There's no gold. We'll take it. There's no gold. Burroughs said there was no more than $2 on the hill. Okay. But that wasn't good enough for the board of supervisors who hoped the 50-50 split. So you guys get a dollar. Cool. And they were swelled by Schuffelt's story. It was hard to deny the story Schuffelt had learned from Chief Greenleaf. Turns out there used to be an advanced race of people who built an underground city right in Los Angeles 5,000 years ago. They were called the Lizard People. They were intellectually and technologically advanced. They used mysterious chemicals to dig a network of 285 tunnels. The Lizard People. Yep. Okay. And in huge chambers where thousands of Lizard People families lived. Okay. So this is... Whose point is this? This is Schuffelt. Schuffelt. Okay. Just want to make sure. This is the stuff he learned from the chief. Right. There's Lizard. The Lizard People built an underground city and lived in Lizard families. They stored imperishable herbs for their food supply. Sure. Of course. Like if you were... If you were... Canned foods. If you built like a bomb shelter. Yeah. You would put like herbs like... Exactly. Paprika. Sure. Oh gosh. Thank God for all this oregano. Yeah. Perfect. That's what you would eat. Basil leaves anyone? Or basil? That's right. Which one is it? No, it doesn't matter. It's the dollop. The advanced race were related to the Mayans and had fled a catastrophic meteor shower which created a great fire. They were relatives of the human Mayans? Yep. The Lizard People. Yeah. You would think that they would not be direct ancestors of humans. I don't think they're actually Lizard People. I think they're people called the Lizard People. Okay. Sure. After the great fire, they built three tunnel networks along the Pacific coast. The tunnel labyrinths were built to escape future fires. One of those city's tunnels lay, quote, within a chain of hills forming the frog of a horse's hoof. That description obviously fit for more hill. Sure. Yeah. It looks just like a frog's hoof. And within those tunnels were tons of riches and gold tablets. Oh boy. The tablets explain the origins of human civilization. Sure. So, obviously... Get your hands on those. Obviously, yeah. Worth a lot of money, right? Yeah. You get the fucking... the explanatory tablets. It's the instruction manual. It is very much so. It's probably some troubleshooting tablets also. Great stuff. Naturally, Schuffelt's X-ray radio machine could find the underground tunnels. Oh God. The eye rolling that must have been coming from those who knew what was going on. We were just like, Jesus, I'm in this fucking thing. I think it's a perfect opportunity to use the X-ray machine again. Schuffelt, no, no, no. I think we can all agree we've had some ups, we've had some downs. Mainly downs. But I think another crack at it, this is a perfect opportunity. Since we found out about these lizard people and their cities. Yeah. Let me fire it up. Okay, please, dog. Oh, let me pull the cord. Anyone got gas? Schuffelt, quote, the legendary story must remain speculative until proven by excavation. And people were super into it. The Los Angeles Times and Associated Press closely followed Schuffelt's search for the lizard people's tunnels. The underground tunnel city was of course shaped like a lizard. Right. It has to be. It reached from Elysian Park? Sure. Elysian. Elysian? Yeah. That's right here. Yep. Right down the street. Right down the street. Right where the Dodgers play. Right where the Dodgers play and ruin my life. And the lizard's head, which was all the way to the central library downtown. Sure. Okay. So pretty, pretty big underground city. Big underground lizard that the lizard people lived in. Yeah. Using his X-ray radio machine, Schuffelt said he had discovered the exact locations of 1,900 square feet of tunnels, rooms with 9,000 feet of floor space and 16 places where gold was stored. Great place for floor hockey. Right off the bat. He drew a map of the tunnels below Fort Moore Hill. The county board of supervisors at that point of course gave him permission to dig. We might need a board of supervisors for our board of supervisors. I don't know. I think they're doing the right thing. It's just the man invented something only he can validate. I don't know if that's true. I think it is exactly true. Crowds gathered to watch the great dig while the sheriff held them back to find the lizard people tunnels they dug. McGreary quote, now we're down to the real test with picks and shovels. Our contract permits us to sink shafts past the depths of 50 feet. The main room was believed to be right below the second street in Broadway, so that is where they dug. And some experts said the dig would have to go down to at least 1,000 feet. Oh my God. Jesus. Experts. Yeah, experts, right. Experts on... On where the lizard city is. The agreement with the county expired after the three... and the three men had to wait for the board of supervisors to come to an agreement of taxing beer before they were given the green light to dig again. What is happening? They were... they had other business. How hard did you get it together? And the digging continued. The AP reported they were still digging in January 1934 and had apparently gotten a permit to go deeper as they were now down to 250 feet. Okay. The three men felt they were on target to hit, quote, the key room of the city of catacombs in which were stored the city records which were written on tablets of gold. Really, they know a lot of shit. Yeah. For people who have never been in there. Well, they have the thing. They can see down the... Yeah, they have the extra machine that doesn't work. That's... yeah. Well, no, it clearly works because they're seeing tablets of gold. Well, yeah, they found the gold for sure. But when spring came, they stopped digging. The money funding his venture dried up. The newspapers stopped covering the dig and moved on to other stories. Sheffield settled in Los Angeles in North Hollywood. By May of 19... Right near the lizard's belly. Right. Yeah. By May of 1934, the Los Angeles Times reported that the authorities had, quote, flatly denied the application of Alfred Scott, old time prospector, for permission to dig on Fort Hill more. Scott refused to state what he expected to find. Okay. Can't tell you. Cannot tell you. So... I'll be digging. Right? Yeah. Like a permit, please. I think we should go for it. Yeah. I got another good feeling about this guy. Yeah, let's get in there, mate. Yeah. Mate. Yeah, that's fine. You can say mate. Really? You're Irish. Do they say mate? Right. Fuck yeah, mate. Not right. Absolutely. Just ask Glen Carlin. Huh? Yeah. But they did allow more work on the hill in the name of developments, which continued to unearth bodies in the cemetery. And what's the plan with those? Over the years, the bodies... Weekend of Bernism? The bodies... They were all taken on a weekend trip. They were all just on a boat with ropes? Yeah. Over the years, they were reburied in nearby cemeteries. During rainstorms, pieces of shale were known to drop down on cars heading into the Broadway Tunnel. It's all coming together. In 1949, the 101 Freeway was built over the hill. Or through it or whatever you call. Sure. LAUSD moved their headquarters there. Most of what once was the most coveted place to live in Los Angeles was now gone. In 2006, LAUSD moved their headquarters elsewhere and a large high school for the performing arts was built. During the building, more than 80 bodies were moved, many still in their caskets. Researchers have been told before they started digging that the cemetery had been completely relocated. That is so... Ugh. Like, the idea that you potentially will be... It's not like someone being like, you'll hit bodies. It's like someone being like, you might. I think they didn't think they would at all. From the sound of it, they were told that all the bodies had been moved. And then they start digging and they're like, ah, I hit a larynx. But it's got to be like, you got to be like, we found one. Oh, that's crazy. One was left over. Madness. Oh, shit. Well, let's be careful. Let's respect it, guys. Get it out of here. Hey, Ted. Yeah? I think I got one too. Two bodies. They left two... Hey, Ted! Yeah? I got one over here! Ted! Yeah? Ted! Hey, Ted! Oh, God. Hey, Teddy, if you got a second. Ted, can I just steal you for a moment? Wait, what's going on? We've all found caskets. How many people are working and what is the actual plan? It sounds like they're all just randomly digging. It's a mass dig. So the way they're building this new structure is to just send a bunch of guys in with shovels? There'll be no more questions from your end. Okay, sir. Sheffield died in 1957 without ever having found the treasure. Shocking. So that happened in Los Angeles. So what you're saying is it's our time. You and me. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We figure this out. We dig. We dig. They already got the bodies out of there. We just got to find the lizard city. Find the fucking treasure. Yeah. And the lizard city and their Hall of Records, which it sounds like it's down there. He had a map. I'm picturing like a Denny's Kids map, like a maze. It's pretty close to that. Uh-huh. Let's look it up. Sure. Oh, Internet. I forgot where I am. I get good Internet. You're really labeled Sheffed. Oh my God. And this is all out of just intense dementia, right? I could draw you that right now and be like, it's like this. It would be like that, right? I mean, it's pretty close to the drawings of a crazy person. Yeah. Yeah. Just... There's my favorite part. See? Great. Gold and arrows pointing in every direction. My relative of mine who has some mental disorders stayed at... When I was just starting college, stayed at my house in Milwaukee with my mother for a little while and was going crazy while he was there. And I found his notebook and- Treasure? Huh? Treasure? It was a bank robbery plan and it was a picture of a bank and it labeled the front entrance and then it labeled the back entrance and then all the arrows just sort of indicated going through the back entrance. So it's sort of like the plan was just to sneak in through the back. Yeah. It sounds good. Airtight. I don't know. We didn't see it coming, sir. They came in through the back. To be honest, I didn't even know we had one of those. Why do we? We're opening ourselves up to these problems. Anyway, he got the vault open pretty quick. Again, he knew about the back. We should put something in there besides a screen door. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. And also, let's put up a sign that says employees only. For God's sake, we really got it. We got to attack this from a couple angles. All right. Okay. We tried. We did. We signed cards. All right. I'll let you. I'll say. Baby, come. I'm the best, man.