 And I did four. I did one about food eating contests. Okay. And I did one about the tea party. Okay. Oh boy. Yeah. Yeah. I did that one live. They're just an end work. So we're gonna dip it back into that. All right. Okay. So basically, the new format of the dollop is going to be just going to be one subject like it has been before. But now I'm going to have a guest come in to kind of have fun with someone else as opposed to just sitting in a room, sitting in a room talking to myself. It's a derriere rating. It's just so fucking, hey, look who's going crazy. Hey, what are you talking about? I'm talking about chairs, Dutch chairs. Like Jesus fucking Christ. Mr. T-shirt, what do you think? Dave, are you excited, bro? Are you excited? Yeah. May 14th is the next live virtual dollop. We'll be doing another dollop of looped live. It'll be a 6 PM Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual dollop. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of media in them, videos and pictures. David does a very great job and they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade. Arby's, we've got the meats. No, no, no. Wrong copy, Dave. Wrong copy. This is for the, uh, yeah, just stick to what we're doing. So, uh, May 14th loop live 6 PM Pacific time. Join us again for another live virtual dollop. We've got the meats. So the reason I want to do this one, because basically I'm having, there are a lot of people who are doing research, actually. A lot of my listeners have volunteered to do research on certain subjects. So I am gathering all that research and then I'm going to make a bunch of them and, and bank them and then just start putting them out because they're a little more, it's a little more time consuming to actually have to read. Prepare for a podcast. It's ridiculous. It really is. I'm sure. I don't know why I'm doing it, but I'm doing it. So, uh, but then this, this shit that's been going on this week, I was like, I just want to talk about this guy and put it out because it's fucking nuts. Yeah. And so, uh, I don't know if I've seen it come up in the news and other countries, like in, in, in the guardian and this story, the daily mail, they've talked about it. Isn't that, that's the worst how they always cover the story. What we're talking about is this guy, uh, Cliven, Cliven, Cliven. I mean, it's the worst fucking name. It's terrible. You think Garrett's a bad name. Cliven or Cliven. I mean, you just, no wonder he's so fucking angry. Yeah. His name is Cliven or Cliven. Cliven. Yeah. Cliven is like either way. Yeah. Cliven's like a cleft palate. He's got a Cliven. So, uh, so for those who don't know, like a week ago, those of us who don't pay that much attention to the news, we're all listening to this story about a guy who had, uh, he was having a fight with, uh, with the federal government because he has cows that are grazing on land. Right. And he says he should be able to let them graze for free, but, but the government charges a buck 34 per cow per month. Right. So it's pricey. It's really expensive. It's a burger. Uh, and, and then what happened was he put out the word and all of a sudden militias came in and, and also there's a big standoff with guys with like fucking sniper rifles. Lots of guys, lots of people. Like it went from zero to, to douchebag. Yeah. So fucking fast. You couldn't believe what you're seeing. So what do you, do you know anything about this guy? Because I've been reading about him all morning and I am fucking. Well, you probably know more than me. I mean, what I thought was crazy was when the amount of people that came out to fight the agents who were there to write, like it's like hundreds, hundreds of people, like he put out the word and there's a thing there. So, so do you know what the oath keepers are? Oh boy, I'm excited. I do not. So the oath keepers are all, uh, military police, uh, anybody who's worked in that aspect of, of security or, or killing or whatever. Okay. Uh, so they are, they are these guys who just say they're beholden to the constitution. So they are people who have taken this oath. Yes. And when they're not in the position anymore, they're still oath takers. Yes. And so they have decided that they will fight for the constitution, but not the government. So, so a bunch of those dudes went cruised in. So they're literally military trained guys fighting for cows. That's how Ronald McDonald wanted it. So I want to give you the history of this guy. So this guy, so this guy, uh, Cliven Bundy, he owns 160 acre ranch in, uh, Nevada, which already, yeah, like you have a ranch in Nevada, like it's just, it's a, it's a, it's a fucking desert. Like dirt. Yeah. It's just shit. Yeah. And he's a Mormon. I really didn't know that. And that's just already, it's like the first, the first time I heard the story, they were like, there's a guy fighting the federal government and blah, blah. And I was like, Oh, but he's a fucking Mormon. Cause they are all, I mean, that's, that's like part of their thing. Like, fuck it. They fought a war against us. I don't know. People know that the Mormons joined the American Indians and killed us back in the day. And the American Indians are like, God, these guys are the fucking worst. Jesus Christ. No, you can't fuck all my daughters. What are you, what are you talking about? Just cause you have a hole in that sheet and magic underpants. No. So this guy's a magic underpants guy. Uh, so he has this town, uh, this little bunker Ville. Let's call fucking bunker Ville. Ah, this guy's the worst. It's like a hack. Yeah. Really bunker Ville. So basically the way it works is they're there. The federal government owns land, right? Yes. And then they say, if you want to use it, you got to pay a buck 34 per cow. Right. And you can per month and then, and then your, your dudes can fucking graze and you can only have 150 cows. Total legitimate sounds great for bunker Ville. Fine fucking rules. Right? Like everyone's like, Oh, that sounds good. All the other farmers doing it. And then this dude in 1993 was like, I'm not going to pay anymore. That's it. And he had been paying. Yeah. His dad used to own the ranch. They own the ranch together and then his dad died. And then a few years later he's like, I ain't paying the goddamn federal government. I picture bunker Ville a lot, like the place where Dan Acroyd ends up in nothing but trouble. First of all, first of all, 98% of the listeners are like IMD being what is nothing but trouble. Is that the, is nothing but trouble. The, the camping one? No, it's a, that's no, it's Chevy chase, Demi Moore, Dan Acroyd, maybe it's not Chevy chase, but it's Dan Acroyd and Demi Moore. And they go on a road trip and they end up in this crazy junkyard with these big fat, weird twins. And the digital underground plays a song. It's the terrible movie. I've never heard about it. When did this come out? I mean, probably 95. So, but it sounds exactly, it's very appropriate. Yes. Believe me, it sounds like bunker Ville. So he stops paying, right? Cliven, Cliven stops paying for his shit. And then, and then the, the, it's called the BLM, Bureau of Land Management. It's like, Hey, bro, you know how you're not paying? Can you, can you like pay? No, I don't believe in paying no more. I don't. Here's the deal. My, we have owned this land since 1854. So it's my land and landed on my cow. It was my, I had cows just a floating in the air and the land came down. Land attack my cows. So he basically says that his, his ancestors have been there forever. So, which is a classic, like religious thing. It's very, yeah. It's very, well, the idea, what's crazy to me is when somebody's like, you know, the constitution is the most important guy. Cause of course, look, nobody's saying like, it's not an important thing, but the idea that any thought from hundreds of years ago is still just still hangs in there. It makes sense. Makes so much sense today. It's just crazy. And that's why, and a lot of times it's tied to people who also believe the crazy religious shit. Yeah. Where you just like, Oh, you just like to think crazy shit. Yeah. That's your beef. Yeah. I should, I should add that my dad now walks around with the constitution in his back pocket. Does he? Yeah. Why? I don't know. I let, when I saw it, I laughed so fucking hard. I mean, when are you, when are you going to whip that out? Yeah. When are you like, Oh, hold on. You're like in the grocery store. Yeah. I think those grapes are a little bit, hold on. I'll talk to you. Or is he picturing like Nicholas Cage from national treasure? Like I need a print of the constitution. He's like, Nicholas Cage, Nicholas Cage. There's not a situation where someone's going to be like, what was that middle part like? What? Tell me more about the constitution. Jesus Christ. I mean, my dad could easily be one of these guys. He's so close. Uh, okay. So he refused to pay and then the, the, the federal government was like, well, you should pay. So they took him to court and a judge was like, okay, you either remove your fucking cattle. And this is a 98. Yeah. You either remove your cattle, uh, or you, you know, you pay the fucking money and he's like, I ain't going to believe in judges. No, here's where it gets great. He doesn't believe in the federal government. It's like, but I love a guy that's like, I love a guy that's like, okay, here's the deal. I'm not going to play by your rules. Why you're not real. Or a guy who's like, I don't believe in rules. That's a rule. You just said a rule asshole. Nope. Nope. Don't try to rule me. Don't try to rule me. I'm a guy without rule. But then the other thing is, he's like, you know what? I, I follow the laws of Nevada. Okay. Hold on. Oh God. Okay. Okay. So let me, okay. So let me try to work this out. So so you don't, you believe in the little place, but not the bigger one. So the, so Nevada is real and the United States is not. Yeah. I'm living, living like, living. That's the life that I'm living. So, uh, in 2013, so this went on for you. So he's not paying for years. So what's been going on since then? They've been like, they've been like, you know, sending buddy, please, please pay this shit. They've like sending letters and like, you know, and, and occasionally take him to court or whatever. And he's just not doing anything. But at the same time, the reason they're not doing anything is cause he's like, I'll blow your fucking head. Like he's the guy like, I got a lot of guns. I got all my family. I get people down here in a second. Right. He's saying that the whole time. So there and, and with like the Waco thing and the Ruby Ridge, they're like, well, we don't want to, we want to have another thing where we have to kill a bunch of people. And, and having read about this, I very much want them to go green light. I'm relighting the project. Go ahead and light them up. Go ahead guys. Head on in there. So, so he was given 45 days to remove his cattle in 2013 and, or, and they were going to be, or the BLM was going to come in and just take the fucking cow. Okay. Which yeah. Yeah. Or you know what? Even better. I don't even think they should take the cows. I think they should just shoot them. I know it's totally fucked up, right? But just go shoot the cows and go, okay. So that's over, right? You just treat it like a hostage situation. Just be like, I'm going to shoot one on every hour until you stop grazing. Give me two cows for good measure. Send out two cows. Good measure. Okay. So, and then last April, last April, so that was last year. So wait, so 45, he ignored the 45 days. Obviously he did. He completely ignored ignore the 45 days and they're, they're saying that he they're saying, I think they want to take his land, his house or whatever. Yeah. No, that can't be right. They just, so they just want to, they just want to take all the, you heard how on board I was for taking his house though, right? Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now let's take his house. Fuck everything about this guy. Like just, you can't have a guy that's like, you're not real. Yeah. Like that guy can't be. And his house isn't real. And I get it. We get fucking Bunkerville then. Well, the best thing is, is that he's saying the United States government doesn't exist and then there's all these pictures of him riding around on his horse carrying his American flag. Yeah. Like, Hey, do you know what that means? Shouldn't you have a Nevada flag? You fucking ass. I want my mouth with that shit. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Get your Nevada flag up there. So, uh, so then he put out, so when they said we're going to seize your cows, he put out the word and then all of these fucking dudes poured in and they're it's there. A lot of them are the, the oath keepers. So they're, so they're legitimately they're snipers and they're dudes with AK 47s and they're like legit. They're like a legitimate army. But then, but then the other thing is like, so these guys have been there for a couple of weeks and it's like, well, don't you like, don't you have jobs? Yeah. Like who, who just goes like, Hey, I'm going to go guard some guys ranch and like, they're coming from all over the country. I gotta go keep the oath a little while. Aren't you supposed to work in the morning? Yeah. It might be a couple of weeks. This guy's cows. Yeah. We might have to give up the house. Why I'm protecting cows in Nevada. We're probably going to be moving to Bunkerville. Did you get my email? I emailed you all about Bunkerville. We're moving. What? I don't understand. Yeah. The government is trying to take our cows. Yeah. What does that mean? I don't know. The government's not real. I have to go protect the cows from something that's fake. The government that isn't real is trying to hurt my cows that are now human friends. We're moving to Bunkerville. The only laws are the Cleveland law. We're going to go get some clean Cleveland. We're going to a clean Cleveland society. Okay, so this is where it gets awesome. So all these dudes come, right? I always like the part is always awesome when all the dudes come. I mean, it's just there. So here I pull out a couple of them. So this guy's an oath keeper. James Yeager is calling from Cliven Bundy's front yard where he's one of several providing 24 hour security to the Bundy family. He and his friends packed up a full medical kit and a camera. Oh boy. I don't know what's happening. Okay, man, we're getting an arm standoff. What do you get the camera and the medical kit? Let's get out of here. Like, what the fuck? Did you bring the medical kit? What do I look like an idiot? What about the camera? It's here, dummy. I know what we need to go save cows for Cliven is go time. Got the bag. Got the bag and the camera. Let's go. Oh, fuck. So these guys drove from Tennessee to to document he's there to document Oh, good. That'll be a good documentary. What he calls a tremendous overreach of federal power. And he's posting videos daily on YouTube. But wouldn't anything be an overreach if you don't believe in government? Well, that's that's the thing. Yeah, the fucking post office is an overreach of you don't believe in government. Yeah, everything roads are an overreach. A red light. You're talking about fucking chaos and anarchy. If you don't believe also, these guys are oath keepers. What the fuck is the Constitution? What exactly? I mean, at one point, they kept the fucking oath that the federal government insisted they keep. So what the fuck? Oh, my God, these guys in a circle eating their own assholes. None of it makes sense. You cleaned up? When asked if he also packed weapons, Yeager said, of course, I'm always armed. This is not any different than any other day for me. That really should have ended with a duh. So this guy Yeager, an oath keeper last year, he drew attention for calling on fellow patriots to rise up against gun control. If that happens, it's going to spark a civil war. And I'll be glad to fire the first shot. I need all you patriots to start thinking about what you're going to do. He said in a video posted on YouTube, if this goes one inch further, I'm going to start killing people. OK, so but here's the thing. So it's these guys aren't going down there like protective fucking cows. Yeah, these guys think they're starting a civil war. That's part of the problem with when people have these crazy belief. Like when people believe in end of days, they're like they want end of days. And it's like when people have all these guns, they want the time. The guy just fucking yes, the guy the guys who are stocking up gun after gun and have a house full of guns are just like my life cannot be for nothing. There has to be exactly a revolution. And that's the same with end of days. They're like you can't have your whole life believing in this thing and you know, not have it happen because that's a waste of life. Total waste of life. So they so these guys are going down there because they think they're kicking the shit off. Yeah. But all that's going to happen is they're probably going to get killed. Yeah. God, please just send it a drone. Well, I mean, honestly, drone. Honestly. I mean, I am so for like I really do not like war. Like I'm not like, but yeah. Fuck them. I mean, honestly, we've become so complacent and just letting the morons become like the people who lead. Yeah, that it's like you should we should just start treating fucking idiots like like problems and just start fucking taking them out. We have too many people, right? We already have too many people. We're fucked. Here's the funny thing. This is exactly what they're talking about. I kind of like living. Okay. So wait, you mean that's what the government's talking about? No, that's what these guys are talking about. Exactly what they're saying. Yeah. He's gonna. So this is great. So at a recent Patriot party hosted by Bundy, I mean, could you have just said a crazier thing? You've never been to a Patriot party. Oh, yeah, I didn't realize I didn't make the connection. Somebody greeted his fans with a copy of the Constitution. Hey, hey, everybody. Check around. Wow. Case we run out of toilet paper. This is where it gets so great. He believes in the Constitution. Yeah, sorry. That's all he believes in. It just doesn't make sense. But he doesn't believe in the government that wrote the impossible to seem impossible. I mean, the Constitution. Here's the deal with the Constitution. Sure. It was made by a bunch of bros. Right. But those bros weren't a government. Right. They're just bro. They're like bros in a house. Yeah. So so so the Constitution doesn't have anything to do with making a go. It was a rowless. It's a bro. This is a bro list. Thank you. This is where you you come in because you used to do birthday parties. A George Washington impersonator clad in a full white wig and navy coat with tails showed up to eat barbecue besides Bundy and his wife. That's the point where you're there and you go, we jump the shark. What the fuck are we doing? That's the point where a wife who didn't want to make the move pulls on her husband's arm and is like, we need to talk in the truck. I need to talk to you in the truck right now. But what happened was everyone just went, oh, fuck. Yeah, man. Man, George Washington loves ribs, man. He can put back ribs. Holy shit. I thought we might be on the wrong road here. But then G. W. showed up. Goddamn George Washington. Just when you think Bundy might be out of his mind, he hires a George Washington impersonator to eat barbecue. And you're like, oh, yeah, this is a real mission. We are on the path. So here's where it gets really great is that the Oath Keepers are using this. I say they killed George Washington. They were like your party. That guy was president. George Washington dead again. So the Oath Keepers are using this as a recruitment tool. So basically when they when they've been waiting for something like this, because they know that it's going to get a lot of press, which has been. Yes. And so then the press leads to more people being like, Goddamn, the federal government and taxes. They take taxes and all they give me is roads and education and protection and safety and clean water. Those motherfuckers. Like so. So there's all the now there's now there their ranks are swelling because of this. So the Oath Keepers are big and they brought that 15000 before this started. The Oath Keepers. So now they're going to be like 30000, 40000, 100,000 like they're about to explode into an actual army that wants revolution from a fucking dude who is see gracing his cows inappropriately. This is the thing is that if you like if you wanted to talk about getting like completely changing the government because it isn't a government. It really is not a government that really works for the people. No, it doesn't work. It doesn't do it works for the rich. However, these are not the people that you want in line to come up with the plan B. No, I don't want their help. No, no. So if it's like, would you rather follow them or would you rather the fucked up system you live under now? It's like, I'll stick with the one right now. If I'm anywhere and people are talking about how to fix the government and then a dude comes in dressed up like the president starts eating barbecue, I declare this barbecue to be delicious. George Washington sneak out to take a dump real quick. Overate on barbecue. This is what this is what buddy says. If people come to monkey with what's mine, I'll call the county sheriff. If that don't work, I'll gather my friends and kids and we'll try to stop it. I abide by all state laws, but I abide by zero federal laws. Okay, so he doesn't believe in Carol Bundy said her husband is not a violent man. No, just a person who will protect what he owns. Right. And so is she. I've got a shotgun, she said it's loaded and I know how to use it. We're ready to do what we have to do. But we'd rather win this in the court of public opinion. Which, which now but now you you've you've what's the handy stuff because you said, because I haven't been watching any of that. Oh, what you what happened yesterday? Yeah, no, no. What what is what is Sean Hannity's role been in? Okay, so basically, as you would expect, Fox News has sort of turned this guy into a Joe the plumber, right? Yeah. So they've sort of taken him and and part of part of the reason why their numbers are going to swell is because of this shit. Yeah. So it's like Sean Hannity specifically has embraced it. So he's saying this guy is being fucked by the federal government. And he's going like, you know, if you're talking to me about when there's like, you know, and he's obviously contradicting himself because he doesn't. He believes in the federal government when it's run by right W. Bush, right? Just doesn't right now. Right. But yeah, so he's right on this guy's back. He's a cheerleader for this guy. He's been given this guy a lot of press. It's become his issue. Okay, that's fantastic. Yeah, he's Joe the plumber. So so one of the guys that showed up to the ranch is a retired sheriff from Arizona and an oath keeper. Oh, good. And this is what he said yesterday. Oh, God. So so what happened was the government, the government backed off. But first, they sent a shitload of people down there, right? Yeah, they sent a huge standoff started confiscating cows, then then they then all of a sudden, the militia showed up and we're on the overpass with sniper rifles and fuck out of there. And they were like, Okay, fuck this. So this is their cow. Actually, you know, it's interesting is I'm just a guy who is a federal government employee. And I don't want to die for a bunch of fucking cows. You know, what's crazy is if they took all the money it costs to travel and do all this, they would have enough to pay for this stupid fucking grazing. How much gas it costs to get from Tennessee to fucking Nevada. $1.84 a cow. I'll pay it. I'll fucking pay it. Call Cleven. Cleven. Cleven. So this is what this guy ex sheriff says. I would have put my own wife or daughters there. I would have been screaming bloody murder to watch them die. I would have gone next. I would have been the next one to be killed. I'm not afraid to die here. I'm willing to die here. But the best ploy would have been to have the women at the front. Because one, I don't think they would have shot them. And two, if they had, it would have been the worst thing that we could have shown the rest of the world that these ruthless cowards hired by the federal government will do anything. So they're literally talking about using women and children. About doing anything. They're literally talking about using women and children as human shields. And then if they die, that's almost better. What did I fucking tell you? What if they die? Well, if they die, we're going to count our lucky stars. We'll have a viral video. All right. We're going to have a video called I told you so. Aren't you going to miss your wife and family? Well, yeah, but we'll have a great video. You know what? Worth it because I got I got cows as friends. And you know what? If you're wondering how we're going to shoot it, I have a medical bag and a camera. I brought all two. So and Nick, I write, I mean, ideally, what that guy just said is obviously so crazy that hopefully some people are like, it's that's the line. But it wasn't though, because that happened a few days ago and that's and they still didn't come out and go, no. Yeah. And you know what? He was still like, yeah. And all these all these fucking there are so many politicians. Yeah, of course. Let me see if I can find any politicians who are now like he's a no, no. But they were so many politicians who came out when this started and said and said that, yeah, he's totally what he's totally right. So okay. Rand Paul, right? Yeah, big, big. And this this is a totally a libertarian thing. These guys are all like wacko libertarians. Yeah. There's some libertarians that I'm like, okay, you might have a point. I think that libertarians there. Exactly. There are some that you're like, that's that makes sense. That's what I mean. Like somebody who's like, I'm not crazy about the federal government. I get that. These are just not the people. These are not the people at all. This is what Rand Paul said when the whole thing started. The federal government shouldn't violate the law, nor should we have 48 federal agencies carrying weapons and having SWAT teams. What that's what do you what do you mean? Yeah, what that's what that's the yeah, that's exactly what they should be. But you do you know what the government does? Like they they protect us because otherwise we're it's fucking Mexico and everyone's just running riot and killing each other for fucking. Yeah. How can a guy who is in the federal government? The guy who's like, I don't believe in that guy. That's like me saying like, I don't believe in Santa Claus and Santa going on record and being like, I support his belief. Texas Governor Rick Perry. Oh, I have a problem with the federal government putting citizens in the position position of having to feel like they have to use force to deal with their own government. They don't know what it's in the letter. They started with a fucking letter. They told me he couldn't do something. Yeah, he's the one. What are you talking? Yeah, it's really fucking so. So there's just all there's there's just a fucking shitload of those dudes saying that shit. And you know, it's just always we really have just blossomed beyond any other nation. We've just blossomed into this fucking nation of just a retarded people. I mean, we are just fucking morons. It really is crazy. It's crazy to live in it. It is it is because because this isn't like I would love to say that this that this is is a unique Yeah, but you know that on my block, there's a dude that thinks this well, and here's the thing, right? Ideally, you live in a world where when this happens, everybody is just like, what the fuck is going on uniformly? Everyone's like, don't do no, let alone a news organization and that's air quoted, saying that this guy has a point. It's just like, right? You like the idiots? The idiots just grow. They're like, they're gremlins. And they keep spilling water everywhere. Okay. So now here's the interesting thing. He he so he says that his ancestors got he got this land in 1877. Bunkerville. Yeah, well, yeah, this landed Bunkerville. It turns out that's a total lie. From Clevens line. Yeah, not for Cleven. So he says, I've lived my lifetime here. My forefathers have been up and down the Virgin Valley. It's called the Virgin Valley. It's so fucking Mormon Lee creepy. That's what I call the virgin Valley. Yeah. What do you want to call this place? Jesus Christ, don't call her virgin Valley. Did the women get to vote? No, no, it's gonna get weird for you. No, you just live in a house with me and three other wives. That'll be fun. Huh? Special. So we've been here since 1877. So these all these rights that I claim have been created through preemptive rights and blah, blah, blah. So he says I've been there since 1877. So then a local news crew did a little research, and they discovered that they didn't start living on the ranch until 1954. Oh, that's a little bit of a difference. Those are his two fathers. Not as for Yeah, so so he's just a fucking bullshitter. Now. They also say that they also they also claiming it's like the Indians. What do you mean that they're like the American Indians that he's he's saying they are like the Native Americans. Yeah, they're saying well, he's a fucking they're literally treating West United States citizens, ranchers and rural folks like the modern day Indians were being driven off our lands. Here's how you know he's the dumbest. Yeah, it starts with literally. Yeah. I mean, right there. It's like, No, it's not that. The irony is, is that in 1875, the local Poite Indians were first off their lands under reservations. So the white men could move in and seize them. So he's literally saying that he got the land in 1877. And that two years before, the Indians are driven off. Now he's saying he's being driven off his land, the land like he that they're just like his clay. His family stole it from American Indians. We're being treated like Native Americans, which I treated poorly. What? Okay, so there's just Native Americans have to just hate this man. Oh my god. I mean, this guy's like Dan Snyder. Sit down. We're gonna talk. Cliven the great Okay, so said, now have you heard the Rosa Parks? Not I know the Rosa Parks story. Not in this context. I'm excited. So they're comparing him to Rosa Parks. Oh, boy. That is. Like even that's racist. No, yeah, no, I'm sorry. I'm not rolling over for this one. You guys are out of line. You don't own the land. You don't own our ranch. You don't own us. And we will stand firm in the principles of freedom that we were blessed with as Americans. And that's exactly what this was. This is Rosa Parks refusing to get off the back of the bus. Okay, by people who are like Rosa Parks, we're gonna fucking beat the shit out of you if you don't stand up. It's like Rosa Parks was not being treated as an equal human being. Yeah, you're stealing from the government. You don't think it's Rosa Parks wasn't like the government's not this bus isn't real. I don't believe in buses. I don't believe in standing. Okay, so this is where it gets awesome. So all these people are backing this dude up, right? Everybody loves him. He's the new Rosa Parks. There is there is there is fanfiction. Oh, Jesus Christ. It's great. You want to hear I'll read you a couple of today in the year 2064. Oh, wow. As we look back over the last 50 years, it might seem as if the abundance revolution was inevitable. After all, it was wealth just waiting to be unleashed. Indeed, as we look back and study the events of 2014, we can see the results of the green elites ideologically driven effort to squelch even the relatively small amount of prosperity that Americans were then enjoying. That is, it was the green elites who unwittingly opened the door to the abundance revolution. It all occurred in April 2014. By the way, global warming is terrible now. The first string event. Now the stuff of lore and legend was the incident in Bunkerville, Nevada, in which Clavin Bundy, an anonymous citizen, joined by several hundred supporters, faced out a federal army led by an ally of then Senator Harry Reid, an army led by Harry Reid. You got to pick a better guy to lead the army to defeat the guy who looks like he's he's Stephen Hawking walking. All right, so every read, well, you know, Harry, the bottom is very, very, very easy. Okay, guys, maybe we should get them. All right, Harry. Okay, so we got to get to the what he said. So how do I have it here? So he went a little race. So then yesterday he decided it's after all this, this groundswell. So so now everyone's got his back. The media, the Republicans, the media darling, the the the Hannity's, all these militia guys. And then he is given a speech at his. He's talking to the press and like getting a little everyone's like, yeah, go you tell him, buddy. Yeah. And then all of a sudden, he just says this, he goes off script. He goes way off script. He says, the Negro. Okay, so all right. Okay, already problem. The Negro. So he just goes into this. The Negro. Just nods their head. Let's just hear what he has to say. He's, he's clearly a smart man. He doesn't believe in the government. They abort their young children, they put their young men in jail because they never learn how to pick cotton. So wow. So so he so he just went for it. Like there was no there was no like there was no Hey, I live amongst people. Yeah, there's no like, hey, there are other people around me that are humans. Yeah. Well, what's so delicious about his racism is that it I don't think anybody in like a serious manner has ever been like, brought up picking cotton, like he's bringing up picking cotton like it's something that ended 10 years ago. Picking cotton is not like you got to be you have to dig so deep on your racist bench to go there. I mean, like if you're gonna be racist in this day and age, you're like, like towards black, you're like, oh, they like fried chicken or whatever. How are you going to hide in cotton? You ready for more? God keep feeding me. And I've often wondered, are they better off as slaves picking cotton and having a family life and doing things or are they better off under government subsidy? They didn't get no more freedom. They got less freedom. Okay. So so just I'm just gonna judge by like, let's just take one guy. Let's just take one guy. You don't want a family feud? No, I'm just I'm just taking one black guy. Okay. Okay. Obama. Okay. So so let's do a little pro and con sort of argument here. So so he he is getting subsidized by the government, right? Because he's living he's getting a free room and board. Yeah, in a house. And so that so that is that is a legitimate question. Would Obama be better off as a slave? Yeah, but slaves were beaten with whips. Oh, and had no life and the women got raped and they were killed. Yeah, but they weren't. They weren't living off government subsidy. Yeah, but see what you don't understand. He has a home. Obama has a home. Right, right, right. The slaves didn't have a home. They just had like a room where they would just all sleep together and be treated like shit. And they had like they couldn't make any decisions for themselves. Like they weren't but they weren't. Just hear me out. They weren't. They weren't having abortions all the time. And they weren't and a lot of their young men weren't in jail. And they weren't no, no, no, no. On the contrary, a lot of all of their young men were in jail. They were in jail. They were slaves. So they were totally in jail. And these they would have probably if had they given the choice to have abortions, these women probably would have had them because a lot of these babies were because their masters raped them. I'm not sure if I really agree. Yeah. Now I'm going to quote my friend, Cliven right now. Okay, sure. I think makes a really good really good point. Quote CB. In my mind, I'm wondering, are they better off being slaves in that sense or better off being slaves to the United States government? In the sense of subsidies? I'm wondering, that's what and the state was right. I am wondering. So he said, let me ask you this. Would you rather me cut your dick off or flick it? I think I think I want to flick. Well, let me show you. It'll probably hurt. It'll probably hurt a little. Let me cut it off. Okay. So today does those he made those statements yesterday. Yeah. Everybody was like, like even even more. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Even Rand Paul was like, oh, no, that's not cool. That's not no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I believe in the government now. I believe in me again. Oh, wait, there's a guy. Let me see if I can find this dude. It's after that all happens. He does the old Negro great, terrific Negro speech. You don't hear him like his his I have a dream speech. One of the supporters serving as a bodyguard for Nevada rancher, a Cliven Bundy during his standoff with federal authorities, and who happens to be black, said he would still take a bullet for Bundy after the rancher made racially inflammatory comments. Do we know why? Because there could only be two. Well, no, there could be three reasons. Right? One is that he's just like, look, a job's a job, a gig's a gig. You know what I mean? I don't think they're getting paid. Well, OK, so one's gone. So then my two options are he believes that black people would be better off as slaves. Yeah. Or he's just the smartest black guy who's like, I'm in the fold protecting this asshole. Guess what? When fucking shots are fired, guess who's fucking going to be totally safe? Guess who's going to be picking cotton? Guess who's going to have their hands full? Hey, let me tell you something. Let me tell you something right now. You know what I do? I have a house and in the back of my house, I have cotton and I'm a black man and I go out there and I pick cotton. And so I agree with Bundy. It's it's it's meditative for me. It's meditative. What would be great is if Bundy did get his wish and had to go back to picking cotton. He wanted to go to pre Eli Whitney cotton. He's like, no, no, no. Make him make him pull the seeds out. That's when they were focused and happiest before Eli Whitney came along and pissed all over the party with that fucking gin. CNN's Dan Simon noticed Jason Bullock, a six year army veteran who serves as one of see they're all fucking army guys. Oath takers. Yeah. As one of Bunnie's bodyguards hanging around Nevada Ranch and being a black guy, he went up and said, what the fuck? Hey, hey, so let me talk to you because you seem to be the craziest person here. We did find someone crazier than Cliven. Simon asked Bullock's whether he found Bundy's remarks about blacks and slavery offensive. What do you think his answer was? I mean, it better have been Oh, fuck yeah. That's weird. He said Mr. Bunny is not a racist. Right? Yeah, that's a that's a normal. That's a besides all the racist stuff. It seems like he's not right. Yeah. Ever since I've been here, he's treated me with nothing but hospitality. He's pretty much treating me just like his own family. I would take a bullet for that man if need be. I look up to him just like I do my own grandfather, who right now is probably super bummed. I believe I believe in his cause. And after having met Mr. Bundy, a few times, I have a really good feeling about him. And I'm a pretty good judge character. Now see, I've met Mr. Bundy a few times through the internet. Yeah, I have a really bad. How the fuck if you think about the progression that you just walked through of this story. Yeah, this literally started with some fucking prick who wouldn't pay money for his cows. Yeah. And now we're talking about black people happier as slaves. Holy shit. Yeah. Yeah. So today I can't believe there's more. There should be no more today. So now obviously all the politicians are like, oh, wow. I mean, I don't I agree with the cow situation, but I actually do disagree with his his idea that black people should be slaves. Cliven believes the black portions of the cows would be happier picking cotton. He wants to get the black spots off of cows. He feels that they're too integrated. Okay, so now he is being questioned today about his remarks from yesterday, right? And I'm sure that he's backtracking. So what he said was, let's see. I thought about Rosa Park. Isn't it Rosa Parks Rosa Parks? Yep. Okay, so he calls her Rosa Park. Well, he does it as if she's a park. Yeah, that's what he thinks wouldn't get off the bus, a playground. I thought about Rosa Park taking her seat at the front of the bus. This is when someone's like, so could you explain your Negro comments? Hold on. Okay. I thought about Rosa Park taking her seat at the front of the bus. What Reverend King wanted was that she could sit anywhere in the bus and nobody would say anything about it. You and I can sit anywhere in the bus. That's what he wanted. That's what I want. That's what he was after. It's not a prejudice thing, but make us equal. So then the so then the the reporter goes, I understand that the Martin Luther King's message is about peace and freedom. And then bunny says, maybe I send and maybe I need to ask forgiveness. But you know, when you talk about prejudice, we're talking about not being able to exercise what we think and our feeling. If I say Negro or black boy or slave, I'm not. I mean, if those people cannot take those kind of words to not be offensive, then Martin Luther King hasn't done his job yet. Well, well, well, it's like we've been sitting watching fireworks all night. And then they just did the finale. I don't know. Here's the deal. If I can't say Negro or black boy or nigger or porch monkey or any of these any of these fine words, then Mr. King hasn't done his job. And why hasn't he done his job? Because he's dead. He's a black and they're fucking lazy. That is the most that I mean, that has to be the most racist. That's the most racist human being I have. Although I will say when I was in Georgia on a tour years ago, I was talking to a guy and he said it's my God given right to own black people. It was my first time as my first time in the south and I'm like, I don't want to come back here. Oh, my god, I don't we don't think that at all. Our racism in California is so much. Yeah, we're just like Home Depot Mexican like joke racist. Just said you're God given right to own black people. And I like that how it falls on Martin Luther King. Right? No, it's Martin Luther. If they're not if I'm wrong, blame Dr. Martin Luther. I can't say Negro or black boy, then you blame a dead guy from the 60s. Why would he keep coming up with more turt? Like, no, he because he's like, Well, here's another one like black boy is just it's almost worse because it's like, oh, god damn it. I mean, he's a miracle. And this is and so I'll put this up. I'll put this up today. But this is this guy's like, he's going to keep giving. But at some he has to be losing people. I don't know because all of these people are because you have to take into account that these oath keepers are just trying to swell their ranks. Right. So so they don't really care. So if they and Fox News has largely ignored the racist comments. Fox has Yeah, Fox News has ignored the racial element. Do you believe that I do not believe that and and so and so if you keep that the sort of eye on the prize if I can take a quote from from a gentleman then then they get to keep swelling their ranks. So they're not going to leave. They want a firefight. You know what I mean? Yeah, like they want I almost want their dream to come true. I am I am so you know, these guys are guys who are trying to destroy our country. Well, they're they're the you know, they're just and they've proven it over and over again. They're the people that will work the hardest to get their vision to come to fruition and their vision is just insane, insane and horrible and not sustainable and not OK. No, it's not OK at all. I wonder how this ends. I really it should just honestly they should just be like fine. Your cattle can fucking graze at all. Fine. Yeah, but then all the other all the other ranchers are furious as they should. Well, then all right. Let's nuke them. Well, I I think that you wait and you don't do anything and then when they start leaving, you just start arresting them. Here would be the ultimate. Yeah, that's probably the best. I mean, this is sedition. Well, what would be the the I mean, again, part of the problem in all this is just that media chooses to give this guy a platform to sound like somebody who makes sense. Right. So the easy way it's the same thing with the school shooting. It's just like, look, if he's just stopped the reporting on this shit. So in like so nonstop 24 hour coverage of this shit, then it'll people will stop thinking about it. But the conservatives are now so entrenched. Yeah, they're fucked. The government being evil that they have to hold up a lunatic as a hero. They are like they're like a couple that is having an argument. And the one just realized, oh, shit, I'm wrong. But it's like, I'm not giving up. I fucking ride this shit out till you apologize. I do just I mean, what the guy said at this point, if he hasn't lost you at this point, you are just a racist. And there's no two ways, even if you're the bodyguard. No, if he hasn't lost you now, he can I mean, what's next? Yeah, rape is legal. I believe it. Yeah. By the way, we are on the ranch. We're pro rape. Oh, we eat his feces. Yeah. Fuck man. So that this story is gonna be great. However, it ends off. I'll follow up. I bet it ends bad. So that's the first dollop of the new format. Yeah, yeah, it was really fun. That's hilarious. I mean, Jesus Christ, subject matters. But then you just did a room doing this, you must just get me alone. Yeah. Well, you know, I what I was doing was I would because this way if I sit here with you and I talk it out, I don't I had to be a little more scripted when I was doing it alone. Right? Yeah. So I kind of had to go through and be like, well, this I can make this funny, or I can make this funny. But if I sit here with someone else, then it can just be Well, you got a winner here. I have to put this up today because it's it's fresh. It's gonna tomorrow. Well, they'll all be dead. Yeah. All right. So this is gonna be the new format for the dollop. I just did this one now because this guy was in the news right now. But I'm gonna be banking a bunch and then they'll probably be coming out in the summer. Because I need to bank them. Because it's work. Thank you, Gareth Reynolds. Thank you, Dave Anthony. You'll be at flappers at midnight on Saturday at Reynolds Gareth atc show Tuesday 26. Yeah, or 29th 29th. Whatever. I mean, they're all days. Hey, as long as black people just don't rise up. All right, black people welcome to all the shows. Yeah, please. Thanks.