 This is the dollop the new format which people enjoyed good you didn't fucking blow it all right relax in real a lot of people Thought you would blow it you can't you come in really hot and I don't think anyone thought that I I'd tell you this it's little sets such situation rather since it says you ever get stroke Me you a couple of bros in shorts. Uh-huh little white dog. Yeah, I mean we're in a garage Yeah, this is America, right? So this is the second of the new dollop Should I call it the new dish as you say it's the dollop if people listen the first three They're not gonna. They'll be like well this kind of sucks, but then I think you'd call it the dollop still all right So it's the dollop There will be no walk in the room this week, but I'll fucking just send people here right yeah, cuz it's me Yeah, and then you're gareth here. That's right. You've been the subsidy Greg on the past two walk in the room Yes, now you're in the dollop chair right. It's the same chair though. I just just to be clear uh It is the same chair. I know you need some pepto now. I'm good. I'm all good It's good to know that you got the really big bottle That's huge yeah, what does that half a sip I don't have I'm not like a huge ass problem guy. I have a yeah I went okay, but why not plan for future ass problems by in bulk well because if you have a giant bottle of pepto Then people like Jesus Christ dude this guy's awesome. I Like to just take a big, but I like to walk around and casually just sip a big bottle of pepto Yeah, and just wink at lady. Yeah, just be like where you girls going? What are you guys looking for? I'm ready. I'm daddy's ready. I got the big pink. I could drink whatever I got the big pink you with straw as right girl Big pink is sipping my pepto out of a straw ready for anything this straws all clogged with pepto talking girl Okay, so that's the opposite of what we're gonna talk about today, right? Dave are you excited bro? Yeah excited? Yeah May 14th is the next live virtual dollop will be doing another dollop of looped live It'll be 6 p.m. Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual dollop these shows are crazy. They have a lot of like media in them videos and pictures David does a very great job and They've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade Arby's we've got the meats. No, no, no wrong copy Dave wrong copy. This is for the yeah Just stick to what we're doing. So on May 14th looped live 6 p.m. Pacific time join us again for another live virtual dollop We've got the meats So The subject that has been chosen and I want to thank my researcher on this Mike Hill Purity balls, okay. Now, what do you know about purity balls? I don't know anything about purity, but I you what so you don't know anything I mean it rings a bell. Yeah, not I mean I have an idea of what it is What do you what do you think it is? I would think that a purity ball is where a Okay, where a bunch of religious virgins. Yeah go to mingle and And do what? and do what pray Pray with huge hard on So you think it's a bunch of ladies? It's a bunch of young ladies and men and men and men go and the men are also virgins Yes, okay. And so the men, you know, I don't like your tone because I already know that I'm way off No, but I think it's great because it's such a crazy idea that I want to I want to hear what Same person would think it might be when they hear the name because the name is fucking crazy Yeah, a purity ball is because a pure is not a that's not a word usually Ascribed to a human. No. Yeah, you it's it's like what you hey the water is pure. Yeah, there's no dirt No water. So you're saying like there's no dicks or fingers in you. Yeah, you describe a yeah person that way. I pictured the purity ball Like a dance. Yeah, and I pictured a lot like the dance in school ties. Okay Okay, so people of the same age people of the same age mingling. Yeah, it's kind of awkward. There's punch There's for sure punch. Yep. There's definitely punch probably cupcakes and you think there's any any Kissing or do you think this is a place where they're trying to meet each other? Yeah, I think this is where I think this is It's like a Christian mingle. I think this is where they're mingling. Yeah dancing. All right, they're leaving room for the Holy Ghost You know, maybe balloons between them and like school ties. No Jews So they check for tails at the door Okay, well I'm right on I hate to tell you and how right I am. Well, you're right on one side Okay girls, okay, you're right about the girls So, um, it started the first one was in 1993 All right, and it was put on by the Southern Baptist Convention. So right there, you know, yeah some serious fucking schiznit A purity ball is a formal dance event attended by fathers and their daughters Which promotes virginity until marriage for teenage girls Okay, now where you at I feel like I was sort of right and yet So wrong. Yeah so Okay, yeah, so So they and what do they do Okay, what says right here typically daughters who attend a purity ball make a virginity pledge to remain sexually abstinent until marriage Fathers who attend a purity ball make a promise to protect their young daughters purity of mind body and soul So it's a it's a dance. It's a party Imagine walking into this party. All right. All right Drink of the Pepto. All right going flying stag. Yeah, what's up? Is this where all the purity is? All right, how's it going girl? He step aside daddy step aside. I am the youngest dude in here by 20 years I'm gonna get laid I Know so that okay. So basically it's it's it's a party. It's a big ball for for Adult men to take their and I won't even say adult daughters because some of them they start at six Which is a cool thing to do if you ever get a chance If you ever get a chance here ever bring a young girl Who's about six maybe just learned how to ride her bike and talk to her about not Letting dicks get in her. Oh my you know I just have that chat and do it in front of a room full of people in gowns. Oh my god Normal. Oh my god Six years old. Yeah. Yeah, they start super young Do you want to hear the do you want to hear the Pledge I want to yeah, I want to take it. Okay. Well you can take it right here. You can take the place Your name say that one right there, right? And then I'll do the second one. All right, so I just go to here Yeah, okay. I Gareth Reynolds pledge my purity to my father My future husband and my creator. I recognize that virginity is the most precious is my most precious gift to offer my future husband I'm gonna take the pledge I recognize that virginity is the most precious is my most precious gift to offer my future husband I will not engage in sexual activity of any kind before marriage But I will keep my thought and my body pure as a very special present for the one I marry see Wow See, that's great. So what's gonna appreciate that when I meet him what you're saying is that the only really great thing You can ever give your husband is your pussy. Yes and a hot meal when he gets home from work My pussy and a hot meal. You're not supposed to sort of be a partner and maybe Get a job and help now help with you. Just you're just just basically a pussy. Yeah, you just hold. Yeah Hold the pussy. So you're a good card to hold It's the ace. I saw read this one because this one is more It gives me graphic. This is For secondary virgins. Oh, I'm sorry. We're good. So this is for people who are born-again virgins Yeah, so I have already taken it in the who-ha that's awkward. Yeah The dad's there got the the ones you have to take the secondary oath over the How you get into the purity? Yeah, you're like, uh Listen, I've sucked and fucked a lot of dick, but I never again like dad said two words do over And I see dear god, sorry, I was such a whore great punch love Claire Hi Dave Anthony you or She's unclean God sees how dirty you are I Dave Anthony repledge my purity to my father my future husband and my creator. I now recognize That virginity is that is my most precious gift to offer my future husband I deeply regret and will never engage in sexual activity of any kind before marriage But will keep my thought and my body pure as a very special present for the one I marry Yeah, like a fucking regifted gift you whore your gift Somebody already open this shit. Is this from Ross you whore? Ross dress for less pussy you whore Yeah Jesus right. So so so far as normal, right? Yeah, so far it all makes a lot of sense. Okay So far it's just it sounds Horrible. Yeah. No, it couldn't be everybody it for no the dads are fucking loving it like the dads Especially when those horny girls get up. Oh, yeah, they're like We thinking about your daughter later I mean In 1998 is when it really started kicking off with this couple Randy and Lisa Wilson and they started doing them and that's when the purity ball kicked in they started now One out of a six girls in America goes to a purity ball. Oh my god. I know it's fucking insane It's that popular one out of six girls in America has to go to one of these that's horrible And a lot of them go year after year the dads like it's time for the purity bar here after year How many fucking times do you do this? He pledging? To keep your pussy Straight on the straight and narrow you ever seen scared straight. It's the same thing This is the same thing the guys to sergeant shouting in a vagina You ain't gonna let nothing inside of you again. You hear me so It's they they charge like this one they charge normal. Yeah, 93 bucks per God is so expensive. Isn't he? You think you'd just be free. He's just like everyone else He's trying to turn a bow. No, if you're if you're gonna sit down in front of God and Say that you're not gonna let anyone fuck you then that's that's 93 dollars. You know what I mean? You just got like all right. I accept that I'm happy debit or how do you want to I have a square you can just easily And then just give it a second and go ahead and swipe the Lord and the Lord is Lord it's oh that's approved for the Lord and the three-digit code on the back alrighty Great to meet you, but the grand ball, which is like the yearly Those are all local ones. They do like they run around doing this, but the grand one is ten thousand of course Yeah, and then you just it's really a big one. Yeah, you can really yeah, you really get to do it It's a it's a formal So you got to get a form. It's like oh, it's like we go to this now. I want to go to this Hated it. I still want to go to one, but I feel like me and you couldn't get in together We could be like ladybugs. I'll dress up like a girl. Hey, let me just say I haven't fucked him yet I want to fuck him, but I haven't yet Because we didn't get on the same page um I think my father's been drinking Shut up Sally um I told you to shave your mustache So wanna I want to go stag I just want to fucking show yeah, just go in stag or just be the guy who's like daughter went on a fuck tour Cuz I'd go into the yeah, what would they do if you showed up though, and you're like I bought a ticket My fucking daughter, and I'm just checking out. What's going on here totally have you? Yeah, what's that one? Oh my god? Okay? It's gonna get better. She no. I just read. I just thought of something that comes later Okay, the husband that's a Let me see if I can find this right here This it's a formal event and the daughters get dressed up into ball gowns and the dads wear tuxedos I love that. It's called a ball to That can't be yeah, the one yeah, the one the one thing you could call it that just contains tons of see we're going to The swollen balls we're going you want to go to the testicle party So they guess up they have dinner Then they have a keynote speaker which must be an awesome. I mean can you imagine the speech yeah, just just the worst It's totally dumbest God loves you so keep your pussy clean until a guy like me I know it sounds really crazy to be this specific, but God was very clear Don't let anything happen to the pussies he said to me All right, let me see if I can play this I think it's very important for girls to have a relationship with their father Okay, how are you feeling right now? Not good sick Look at my face What it's very important for a girl to have a relationship with their father So if they don't have a relationship with their father they'll act like normal human beings Fucking and kissing and doing whatever else you do But if you promise not to do that then your daddy's girl, and you don't go out with other dudes Like a like a human yeah like a human. Yeah, don't experience life Yeah, it reminds me of the people who leave the little piece of plastic on their watches when they buy watches and never take it off What are you doing? No, I don't want to scratch it, so you just want to live like you are selling it No remove it It's horrifying yeah What the fuck it's it no it is sad or nothing it's sad when fathers aren't involved in their daughter's lives Therefore nobody touch so here's the deal and this is this goes for most women I know growing up we didn't really have purity balls so as soon as girls started Meeting other meeting boys that they liked their father was dead to them. Yeah, that's what they're fighting. Yeah, yeah but that then that's completely part of You're just delaying the inevitable what this is what happens to the purity ball girls Yeah, the purity ball girls wait so long and are so precious with everything that then they marry the guy that they want to fuck Yeah, and then they'll have a horrible life Because they did they didn't experience anything other than just fucking dickhead who they just like there's like I want to fuck all right I'm 29. I got a fight right. I'm 29. I want to go to this ball with my 75 year old dad, okay? The girls can range in age from their college years to four years old four years old no look I have a four-year-old. I don't he Sort of speaks in sentences, and is it time for him to clear it's time to tell him about fucking and sucking He needs to learn what's right? What's wrong all right? Besides stuff like hey, duh hey Don't touch the flame on the stove and Don't you go fucking like those are the things don't touch the hot thing I can't think of anything more emotionally or psychologically better for a child I mean that to be brought into a giant arena of people in gowns and tuxedos talking about not fucking scarring Listen if I told you what you just said the idea of telling a child for yeah being anything like so It's time to talk about sex. They'd be like what clay. I like clay like nope listen to me, okay? So only your daddy's girl, and that's it no other boys. Well. I like boys no no not anymore shut up whore I don't want you to take the secondary oath Don't you be a number two number two Young women are seen to be wed to Jesus uh-huh and their father is their Quote unquote boyfriend. Oh my God until he was until he walks them down the aisle and gives them away to their husband Who then replaces dad as authority figure and protector? So so then he makes sure that nobody could fuck his wife, but didn't you I mean didn't you do this when your mom? Wasn't your mom yeah until until you met a girl wasn't your mom you call her your girlfriend Yeah, I know and I still do I still call my my girlfriend You know it feels right, and it's normal It's what Jesus would have won and honestly as weird as it sounds he's look he's he's come up with the rules I just got to play by exactly my girlfriend was saying the other day to me actually it's funny my Girlfriend my mom was just saying Leviticus 5 35 keep it weird The mom's the girlfriend Okay, so it's so incest already. Here's a description Katie giggles as she waits for her date Katie giggles as she waits for her date to come around and open the car door the pair enter an ice cream shop She sits down at the table and her date gently pushes in her chair He takes her head from across the table and asks what flavor would you like tonight sugar? Katie smiles and says I'll have chocolate daddy I was like okay. Yeah, well it sounds like a date in the 50s. Oh God is a dad and puts her head down Her head he said that he sits down the table and gently pushes in her chair So he just he just gently slitter and like it like a he's being a gentleman. Yeah, well he wants to get laid later Right Am I setting a fucking sweet scene for you, bro dude so so it's just a bunch of girls It's just a bunch of girls, and this isn't like this doesn't sound weird or it just sounds beautiful It's just a bunch of young girls like four to twelve Dancing around across Saying they're not giving up their pussy in front of their boyfriend dance oh My god, oh my god What do you think that question is why I Can you tell me can it can I be fixed why is Jesus the worst? Why is he doing this oh Oh my god Am I beautiful yeah Oh Which is How it works What the fuck So so what are you saying is like an indoor cat is that good? Looks out the window all the time like now the yard you're like no you just shit and sand in here, okay, bud They're they've literally created this huge organization To stop girls from having normal lives and dating so they can just have this Emotionally incestuous relationship with their daughters, and I'm assuming with a few of them fucking their daughters There's no way some of these guys are fucking it's too. It's too Yeah, it's just so clearly I mean this is like an incestuous father's dream Right it was the original name of this Come on down the incestuous father's dream ball Father Dottie purity balls a memorable ceremony for fathers to sign commitments Oh, well, I love the father has to sign anything yeah. Yeah, no yeah, I'm down for her to not fuck I Can commit to that I? Got a lot of my plate, but yeah that allows. I have enough time to do that. You know what I'm on board I'm on board for my 13 year old not to be sucking and fucking yeah I'll sign that paper give it over here right here, and there's the check for 93 dollars So they decided commitment to be responsible men of integrity in all areas of purity the commitment also includes their vow to protect their daughters In their choices of purity each father and his daughter Walk under an arch. Oh no and dealt before a cross Synthesized hymns played oh god the father's sometimes held their daughters and whispered a short prayer Jesus loves you Jesus loves you. No, I don't want anything going on inside of you a man. Oh my god. Let God enter you dad's God You have a man ever Man enters you this not me Before your 20 or whatever Then you turn to shit You have a fun at Epcot Center other than this Wait so you said you want to go to Disneyland right a man couldn't take it I support my four-year-old's decision to do this That's what it's saying. I don't look she's a free thinker. She always has been Said she was one. She's always pursued things like this Yeah, she's the one not eating the wall. Yeah, yep She's gonna eat in the wall is the one eating the wall, but she also is very clear about what she wants in her vagina And that's nothing except for daddy. Maybe maybe The girls each place a white rose on the cross representing purity The father's protecting role over the daughter's virginity is emphasized throughout the night, so that's cool. So you're a young girl You're like ten and your daughter just keeps standing up and going no one's getting here Just to be clear get off my land your daughter Wilson States father's how long is the evening? Yeah, it's it's it's a long night. It's like a it's like a long evening It's like a like a dinner. It's like a wedding night. It's like a dinner and then dancing and yeah whole thing Fathers our daughters are waiting for us They are desperately waiting for us in a culture that lures them into the murky waters of exploitation They need to be rescued by you their dad One of the most memorable highlights of the ball is when the father stand in the middle of the ballroom and form a circle Around their daughters And they yell who brought the math Oh Where their daughters are standing aglow in their lovely ball gowns and the fathers placed their hands on their daughters Oh wow and together pray for purity of mind body Soul for generations to come are you in? Generations generations. This isn't a fucking This isn't like a little tiny. I can tell you're taking very seriously. Yeah There's remembrance gifts, uh-huh They're given at ceremonies to represent the girls promise of chastity. What do we have? What are the gifts? One form of a token is a charm bracelet or necklace in the shape of a heart for the girl with a not a whore written below with a not a whore written below K jewelers and the father has a key. Oh So it's like a car. It's like it's just like a It's like when um when someone's giving a gift When something goes into something else. Yeah, yeah unlocks it I can't think of anything with it, but but like the first time something is jammed into something. It's hard Yeah, slowly put in slowly carefully with how they slowly not all the way in at first And then you jiggle it a little bit Carefully when you put the the key and you say just the tip just then you're gonna put you're gonna like it eventually Just tip of the key always leads done like in the door It symbolizes the father's duty to protect the young girl's heart only giving away the key to her husband on her wedding day Not creepy. Hey dad grab all the keys to the pussy I mean, it's so this means so means that at the wedding day no the father No, the father walks up to the dude hands him a key. I'm gonna hit that so fucking hard I'm gonna break it A man gives a key to another man to fuck his daughter Here you go I give Derek who's like a family member the key to grace his pussy I personally key she's been so good. I remember when she was four and she said she didn't want to fuck until today and Boy, I mean she what a free thinker she always has been Oh god damn it what the fuck it's so that's why it's so it's so horrible how If a woman is brought up just believing it's like women in the the 30s or the 40s of the 50s They're just they grow up believing. They're nothing. They're just like right. That's what these girls all these guys are like Well, you're your property. Yeah your property for a man Your job is to just when he's ready to let him fuck you and if you fuck anyone before that You're a fucking whore right right right? Well, then the guys let me guess the guys could just fuck whoever right? No, okay? You want to know about the guy? Okay? Why do I so the guys are supposed to the young guys are also supposed to remain virgins and They have I didn't go into it as much because I just thought that there was so much of this But yeah, like a sword thing sword. Oh No, I think it's swords It's swords. Yeah, there's like a sword thing and but they also remain virgins Why does it so? It's so phallic don't hear when you're a kid you play swords when you piss That's what it is play a tape of one of the boys. No, this guy's 21. Oh, I bet he's cool, right? Oh fuck. Yeah, you know, it's hilarious is when they when they show this guy in the documentary. He he looks like a jock He looks like a jock college kid like a normal. Yeah The eldest son and in his first year at University in Virginia Not yet not yet. I'm not in a relationship yet Still still waiting still seeing what what's gonna happen? I have never kissed a girl I have never kissed a girl. Oh, why do you want? Oddly like like he knows how lame it is I have not so I'm gonna say this out loud He was wearing a sweatshirt and it was over school of his college So I went and looked it up and it's a college that's 350 students. Oh, it's pure like they're all crazy Yeah, it's like an online degree. Yeah, they're all crazy Christians and they're just they're just walking around not fucking it's called the not fuck school Ah, but then not fuck you this year. There was a huge numbers 350 students this year There was a huge scandal about sexual assaults on the campus. Of course. It's the same shit with priests It's like totally if you just are like no no nothing. I mean, it's like what somebody's on a diet They're like, I don't eat any sugar anymore. They're gonna fucking crash at 1230. They're just gonna eat doughnuts Pretty good Crispy cream yeah. Yeah. Well, all I had today was a quinoa salad and now I'm gonna have a bag of McDonald's I Have realized that I am a sort of what is my mom call it your girlfriend mom? What do you call it? I'm a physical Connect right so touch proximity are things that just I don't know emotionally Stir me up if you will Don't getting a heart on that's called being a dude proximity Here's the thing here's the thing about me She's a physical romantic This is the thing about me if there's a girl near me, and she's got like breasts and a vagina So I don't want to kiss them cuz then I'd want to fuck unbelievable Do you have like you know when you're when you haven't eaten ever and there's like food I get like a stirring Oh, that's so unique. I get weird stirring I want to shove the food in my we have a bite every I want to fucking eat it But I know if I start eating I won't stop eating it cuz I I love crazy like You know it's a lot like food I mean he really I I Know what lady doesn't want that every lady I Can't believe hasn't found a woman that yeah isn't gonna get on board with that when I kiss you that means we're married Who this is it's so fucking dumb you're working so backwards so idea that you're like part of getting Involved with somebody is like sexual like you start fucking them And then you're like oh, yeah Then you sort of create a bond through that the idea that you're gonna find a woman Who's like fine with just eating at sizzler three nights a week until you're ready to move in together to get married to share Your first fucking kiss Fuck you live this has to be a Dover these people all have to live in somewhere like that I Mean what the fuck and and and and it's great cuz if cuz he's clearly gonna find another woman who hasn't kissed before oh Yeah, they're just gonna find it's not gonna end up with a whore Yeah, no He ends up with a whore. I went have you ever been to Lynchburg, Virginia? No, where all the religious schools are like the Jerry Falwell college. Yeah, okay I got blown so fast like I barely walked into do my set and there was a girl like yeah my cock that Just it's a My god Pete Is a 38 year old father from California? Has already started taking out nine-year-old Cassie hoping to get a jump on the dating scene I believe the openness she has at this age is only for a season What is she a nectarine? Right now I have an opportunity to love her or reject her if I ignore her now She isn't going to come to me later with the tough questions I'm hoping that doing these special nights out will help her understand that she's valuable and will stop her From even accepting attention from a guy who doesn't treat her with the same respect. Okay. Yes now May I May the floor is yours. It's also such a cheat on parenting too because it's not parenting It's not exactly it's the appearance the illusion of parenting by being like she'll be completely pure But the idea is that you guide another being through life. Yes, like you let you get them Yeah, like that guy might not be a good guy. Here's why this guy I don't like your boyfriend right? I don't like I don't like all your boyfriend. Yeah, you text too much These are these are the things that you say each as you go along. No fucking if they're called teachable moments It's not that you just go to a teachable dinner for at once a year. Okay, you ready? No, I'm not Reluctantly one dad who had raised his daughter with consistent date nights had to admit that she did a good job of picking a husband Though he noted there is no one good enough for my daughter and all the fathers shouted a hearty amen Oh Look if I can't fuck her I'm happy that Andy is The man would do I wish I could though. Here's the key The key and let me tell you something. I should be in there. All right, you got you got it She's yours now, but every time you enter her I want you to think that there's someone better who should be in there and that's daddy. Here you go Go also, you might want to have her suck the key a little go before you put it in the lock Go ahead and start her up go ahead and turn that fucking Chill when that thing starts revving you go. Holy fuck. I watch is that crazy? I'm sorry I should have said that you're Behind the seat of a hammy and just fucking fired that thing up. That's what's about to happen I Mean boy, I bet she's gonna be great at it, too Have I thought about it? I didn't ask you that yeah, I thought about it Sure, I've thought about it. I Didn't ask you that was am I consumed by it. Yeah, I guess I'm consumed by it I wasn't I wasn't it impossible for me to fathom that you're gonna do what I've dreamt of doing since she popped out of her mother Yeah, yeah, that's tough. I am I drinking it away sure I am I asked you she am I gonna am I gonna eat a lot of pills cuz I'm in love with my daughter And I want to fuck her I just asked you she was nice. How are you? How's your girlfriend? Your girlfriend mom good What the fuck is where it gets great what you said that nine times Well says advise advises fathers to praise their daughter's physical attractiveness. I Applaud your courage to look your daughter in the eye and tell her how beautiful she is great tits, Marcy Yes, you get god damn it you should get a look at yourself Oh my god, you're so fucking beautiful I like when you play tennis in that shorter skirt and you just see the little bit of your underwear You hit the ball and you make a little squeak. You know Grunting you're right enough to make a father. You're my girl. Oh boy. You're my girl You're my girl Oh, I should all right. Hey, daddy's gonna go to the can for a little while, babe And he's got a dick to hit taking the photo album all right I'm just gonna take a bunch of stuff on the can on I'm just gonna take a bunch of stuff on the can on oh How can you measure the value of your 11 year old looking up in your eyes? I can value it It's valueless with innocent uncontainable joy saying daddy. I'm so excited Wrote one father in a letter describing his grateful participation participation Haven't been involved with father daughter ball for two years of my daughter's it's impossible to convey what I have seen in Their sweet spirits their delicate forming souls as their daddy takes them out for their first big dance Their whole being absorbed Absorbs my loving attention resulting in a radiant sense of self-worth and identity Think of it from their perspective. That's all I'm doing my My daddy thinks I'm beautiful my daddy's treating me with respect and honor my daddy has taken time to be silly Even made a fool himself learning how to dance my daddy loves me. No he doesn't That's why he comes to me in the middle of the night. That's right He sleeps with me in the bed when mom and him fight uh After dessert the 63 men so they do that they have to 63 this is like they pray I know I pray every 30 minutes So every 30 minutes they stand up and they do a purity prayer which is just good There is a that's good for digest if there is a God don't you think he's like yeah, I get it Every 30 minutes. He's like what is it? I'm really swamped. They're like just wanted to remind you. She's not gonna fuck Thanks, God. Okay. I'm working on okay. I'm working on a plague over here What will check yet another 30 minutes all of us? Okay? Thanks. Thank you Yeah, no 30 minutes. It's well, okay. There's a lot of people died over here in the Africa place I'm like you said 30 minutes 29 minutes now. Okay ran long. All right. We'll see ya. Thanks after dessert the 63 men stood and read a lot of covenant before God to cover my daughter as her authority and protector in the area of Purity so they just keep fucking repeating it all like all night like fucking madmen It's also good for me said Terry Lee 54 who attended the ball for a second year with his daughter 16 It inspires me to be spiritual and moral in turn if I'm holding them to such high standards You can be sure I won't be cheating on their mother. Oh good. Hey listen glad we're combining it Sally I get your I get the true 11. I brought you in here, but it's not just about you It's not just about you and keep your pussy all tight and clamped up I know that's a weird way to put it what but this is all also about me, you know You know my secretary Gloria. Have you seen the fucking tits and ass on that bitch? Well, you know what me coming here with you means? I'm not gonna fuck her Okay now pass the raspberry And that's for you girl it's what the result of this Like it's like rum springer like when the Amish kids are 15 and they're able to go I mean they don't go to a bar and like have a couple Long Island iced teas, right? They start smoking and making meth right like they go so far No, they go zero to fucking which is what's just gonna happen. There was when I was in Lancaster doing a gig The dudes told me that there is a place that you drive out to in the country that's just like a lot and everyone parks and all the Amish girls come and They just fuck them in their cars and then the girls leave for research Get the specific area you're talking about Because I'm as a reporter, I don't know if you know this idea reporting What a great I mean just not a sign of what a great part of town I hear you It's about spending time with her said more a minister at the New Life Church It's about showing her how a man treats a woman It's about opening the door shopping with her and fussing over her dress and fussing over her and creating a story And creating a strange incestuous emotional bond that she'll never be able to break and whenever she has sex she'll never feel comfortable She'll never ever feel comfortable And you're off script a lot of times when she has sex with the man She truly loves she'll burst into tears and try to wash her vagina Ah, it's just It's the worst If fathers are not able to attend What then we invite godfathers no grandfathers brothers and uncles? So that's cool. Get an uncle. Yeah, it's cool. Yeah, you can call me uncle Larry. Hey Hey, what you call me daddy? Yeah, my brother John couldn't be here So I'm just kind of gonna make the promise to God from an uncle's standpoint I'm filling it for the no-hole thing or whatever it is. I'm not really all that up on Why why is it called the purity ball instead of the respect my daughter ball? Yeah, I know I there's a million names you could come up with yeah that didn't scar your daughter for life if she broke the pledge Yeah, any girl that breaks the pledge is like You could call it the guidelines ball They keep it a cool ball yeah, yeah Jesus Christ I'm most of them are homeschooled. Can you imagine that? Oh geez that's shocking So it's weird so they haven't been to like a homecoming dance or or a prom so right So they don't actually know what it's like to go out and like see a boy across the road flirt and right that he's cute It's like when you have a butterfly in a jar for days And then you open the jar and the butterfly just flies around the jar for the rest of its life Right, that's how it works, right? It just gets the parameters it should deal with it understands. It's yours now Right, that's all works fucking moron. It's like watching a butterfly give up It's just sad So this girl's homeschooled I'm really like my dad. We have a good relationship each other He's the man of my life right now, and it's gonna be really fun experience So she's she's obviously you know homeschooled imagine be the guy who wants is like marrying into this oh my god You just are like it's fucking unimaginable. Ah like you you if there's a certain point where you 2019 where you go, I don't want to fuck a virgin. Yeah, there's a point where you're like I don't want to get involved in that weird now imagine a girl's like I never kissed anybody. Yeah, oh Oh, I used to be in track and I see a little part of that so I've smoked heroin Just so you know that's where I'm at Alright, so this is where it goes More than half of youths became sexually active before marriage regardless of whether they had taken a virginity pledge Shocker, but the percentage of took precaution against pregnancy transmitted diseases was ten points lower than normal kids So they don't use protection and they get more STDs because wait sorry read that's this again Okay, so half become sexually active right like normal kids. Yes The percentage who took precautions against pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases was ten points lower Fuck so they don't yeah, because yes, no one's teaching him how to do it there And then they start making out they're like, oh my god, put that thing in me No, those are the people who are just like well, I didn't think you get pregnant the first time you can yeah, you can Seamen doesn't fucking take it like that So this is great so there's there's a There's they make t-shirts they make like Okay, this is the one I wrote down. There's a t-shirt That they okay pet your dog not your date It's not a shirt that they wear and then they just wear that on public I thought it's gonna be a my father ruined my childhood and Ability to experience love and all I got was this lousy t-shirt Pet your dog not your date cool so the Teenage girls in the program that pledged were six times more likely to perform oral sex. Oh there's well finally a good thing and Four times more likely to have anal Finally they're doing some right so now we're like positive So you're totally warped and demented but it works to my advantage So here's the thing my daddy has the key to my vagina Uh-huh. Nobody has the key to my asshole. Oh great. Okay. Well, my dick doesn't have a lock. So Let's party I see that's what happens if you go to the thing you're allowed to do ass play if you cross your fingers and your dad doesn't notice ass is a go Say no crossies hon no crossies Crossies a Force study 2006 found that over half of adolescents who took a virginity pledge said the following year that they had never taken a virginity pledge I thought you said a year ago. You were going to that. Nope. No, that wasn't me That's different guys a different girl. My dad had a daughter another one daughter. She died Yes, she's a twin. I actually ate her in the womb. That's what you're thinking of. I Don't want to talk about it Believing that true love waits I make a commitment to God myself my family my friends my future mate and my future children to a lifetime of purity Including sexual abstinence from this day until I enter a biblical marriage relationship. Yeah It's so that's it. Yeah, what do you think? No, it's your mind changed for My thing to do it. This is your mind change from the yeah, this is how it should operate Yeah, so you're on so you're on board now it makes sense and it's cheap and It's and it makes sense It's just a good interpretation of what God wants an important thing to fixate on it really is Yeah, there's a lot of things you could be doing but it's important to make sure that your daughter doesn't fuck anybody I think and if I had a daughter besides keeping her in in a house-shaped cage. Yes, I Think I would I would do everything I could to tell her that a natural process a natural human thing that that everybody does is Vile and evil. Yeah, she does it. Yeah chance with someone that she actually loves. Yeah before she Kisses kisses them and we understand that there's gonna be a lot of errant energy that sort of comes from that and I just want You to lean on dad with that sort of sexual tension and frustration That's right. You come to dad and when you when you feel like getting fucked. Yeah, come to dad Daddy daddy about sit on his lap and have one of our classic chats Awful Jesus wraps his hand around the whole thing. Go ahead Jesus. All right, there we go All right, the Lord is almost done. All right, the Lord Thomas. All right Lord Thomas finished masturbating the behind the chair right real quick and the Lord have cometh All right, that's this episode of the dollop, how do you feel really fucking Yeah, one out of six girls, it's just so It's why it religion could be a thing that I could get on board with in a way Yeah, but how are you not just so hyper resistant to this shit? It's like when you're dealing with this shit You're like, yeah, well, we're just not talking. I mean, we're just we speak different languages. This is this is the American Taliban This is people ruining. Yes young girls. My yeah, and it's funny how we always look at the Mideast like oh, they get you Know they can't show their face. There is a whole yeah wing of this country that suppresses women Suppress their rights makes them feel like shit for being women for being women Yeah, and for doing what women should do. I saw pussy riot the other day. Those are some fucking women That's what we fucking need. Those are girls them play a purity ball. Oh my god. Yeah, pussy riots Okay, let's start a kickstarter. Oh my god. What's your right to a purity ball? Welcome to the purity ball Oh, father's hold your daughter's tat give it up for pussy riot. What?