 have great ideas and a lot of fucking bullshit. Right away any favorite, a lot of fucking waste of wasting my time. Hey, what about Wes Anderson? What about Wes Anderson? Well, that is a waste of time. But then last night, late last night, this dude Seth Wright, a podcaster in his own right, puts up this post that just says, Hey, what do you think about competitive tickling? Oh wow. Oh wow. I was like, well, you should send me more information on that. Wow. I need a sec. So he sends me, so he tries to send to me like three times last night and like I was trying to go to bed, but he kept like sending emails that weren't coming. And I was like, dude, I have to get this before I go to sleep because it's too insane. Dave, come to bed. I can't. I'm waiting on the competitive tickling literature. Shut the light off. So I get it. And I read like 10 minutes of it and I'm like, Oh my God, I can't. I, okay. I'm just going to go to bed and this is what we're doing. So I woke up this morning. Did you wake up in the night and think about it? I woke up this morning and I just rolled over and I went, fuck competitive tickling. I got to, I got to get on this shit. And my wife and kid were like getting ready to leave. And I was like, come on, let's go. I got to get on the competitive tickling. Daddy's got a job to do. That has got to earn a living. You like that food? Yeah. Well, let's get moving. I got a lot of research about the CT organization. By the way, it's my son's birthday tomorrow. So could you be, oh my God, I love whatever you want. I actually, I would like you to be, pick something really embarrassed. Well, it's something that doesn't have a face mask. Oh, you won't that much. Absolutely. I'd love to be a prince. Anything with my face exposed at your party would just be a goddamn honor. Dave, are you excited, bro? Are you excited? Yeah. May 14th is the next live virtual dollar up. We'll be doing another dollop of looped live. It'll be a 6 PM Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual dollop. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of like media in them, videos and pictures. David does a very great job and they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade. Arby's, we've got the meats. No, no, no. Wrong copy, Dave. Wrong copy. This is for the, yeah, just stick to what we're doing. So May 14th looped live 6 PM Pacific time. Join us again for another live virtual dollop. We've got the meats. All right. So I'm going to put my glasses on. I can't. The idea of putting on glasses to read about competitive tickling. It doesn't happen a lot. So the pay is good. What? The pay is typically 1500. Okay. Hold on. Back up. When I say competitive tickling, what do you think I'm talking about? I mean, I think you're talking about some sort of organized sport of tickling. Yeah. But you start with the pay is good. What is they? What do you mean? Competitive. It's like a league. I shouldn't say competitive tickling. It's competitive endurance tickling. So how much can you handle, bro? Before laughing or before tapping out? I think before tapping out. That's better. That's funnier. I like that you can laugh. No, yeah, you can laugh for sure. What? All right. So basically what happened was this kind of blew up on the internet this week because a dude in New Zealand, a reporter like happened across this Facebook page that was set up by Jane O'Brien media. Happened across? Happened across. Yeah. He was like watching foot porn and was like, oh, crikey. Well he happens to be bisexual, this report. I'm fine with that. So he's dumb as a cross and he's like, well, this is fucking crazy. I have to read about this, right? Yeah. I have to figure out what this is. And so they have all these, I guess they're like, okay, first of all, if you go to the page. If? Then you go to the page. Okay, that's it, right? Oh wow. So it's Jane O'Brien media. It's a couple of dudes in Adidas shirts and a couple of dudes without shirts and they're all like, come on, let's go. Let's tickle. The picture is just like, hey. The picture is very inviting to like, come on guys, you're weird if you don't. There's videos of guys being interviewed about what's going to happen with tickling. This one's just, I mean, like these guys right here are from Minnesota and they're just discussing, oh, there's no sound right here. Oh, nevermind. The sound is coming out of the... Okay, so these guys are like, they're just, they're talking about like, how much do you laugh when you get tickled? Like how susceptible are you to tickling? Where are your tickle places? So it's just like, it's like two dudes who are doing like a behind the scenes interview of tickling. That's like the first post on their Facebook page. But what? I still, in a broader term, it is like a league. It's an organized... What is, they just... So in your mind, you're thinking the way this sounds is that they would eventually like it to be an Olympic event. What I am picturing is like ultimate frisbee. Like I want that sort of, you know, periphery. We've heard of it. Might make the top 10 once a year. Well how do you think an event, what do you think happens in an event? I could see a round robin-esque... I really like this kid coming out of Arkansas. This kid could tickle the hell out of someone else and he doesn't tap out often. Okay so... But is it just for fun? They just, I mean obviously it's just for fun. Is it just for fun? It's tickling. Sorry, I don't think that question's ever been asked about tickling before. That's like a Martian question about tickling. Is it for fun? What is benefit for them? Well I like tickle. Well this is, I mean... Okay. So it's set up like it's a league or like there's events, but I'll read you this. Thank you. Jane O'Brien Media seeks lean muscular ticklish males... Oh boy. Who also truly hate to be tickled, right? For a high paying reality TV video project in Los Angeles. Paying includes $1500 and $250 expense money. So a little per diem. Sure, yeah a little fuck you money around town. Yep. You get to stay at a four star hotel, stills photography session with legendary photographer Marco Realmonte. Legendary. Right away I know who we're talking about, Marco. No adult sexual fetish oriented or nudity is involved in any Jane O'Brien Media production. Recorded participants will be restrained and tickled and producer provided Adidas athletic gym wear. What? Adidas? Adidas? It's like we want our name on this. And work as members of tickling teams that compete against other featured individuals. This is a very competitive offering with over 1000 applicants monthly thanks to our Exploding Presents on Facebook. Now they have over 17000 likes on Facebook. So they might not be full of shit. Applicants must be 18 to 24. Oh boy. This is just the more detailed about the participants. What do you mean? Well I think you're leading me down a path but I think I know where we're headed. Maybe even 25. Oh, even the old geezers? It's like American Idol, yeah we'll blow it up a year. If you're really good at being tickled, we'll make an exception. Professional reliable arrangements are finalized by personal cell phone contact with binding contracts. Oh good. So once you sign on, you get a fax, you sign up, you're in. You know I don't think I've ever heard anyone use binding as like a selling feature. You could just say contract, like binding contract. If you, do you want to be a part of our tickling contest? Sign the binding contract! My hand, you're hurting my hand! Put some pen through your hand. So you can talk to this Jane woman about any questions you might have. Well I have a thousand. You do, don't you? And you're also going to get a portfolio when you leave. Oh really, am I? Jane will not take any selfies or pictures taken in the mirror. No facial hair. Jesus Christ. Which you just shaved. I know yeah. So you're good to go. Cause part of me was like we should get you to submit. I'm down to submit. Absolutely down to submit. We gotta have you submit. I don't, yeah listen. I'm down to make this my top priority. Although where this goes you might not want to submit. Oh boy. Well I think I know where it goes. I think you think you know but it goes so much worse than that that you can't even imagine. So respectfully don't bother if you have a mustache. Fuck you for a man who had a mustache for two months. Have a friend, take a well lighted, sharp image of you, preferably waist up in short sleeves or shirtless to highlight your abs and upper body definition. I mean it, we no longer have time for shortcuts. No iPhone pics, they're too blurry and I can't see a damn thing. Jane. Yeah relax Jane. It's a binding contract and no more bullshit from anyone. Okay so those are the, so that's all it says. And then you get it to another page on her website. Let's just say this first page if you read it, it already sounds like this is just some, it sounds like somebody's creating some gay fantasy. Well we're talking about competitive tickling. We're talking about shirtless buff guys from 18 to 24. Well just in the photo but in actuality, when you see the videos it's shirts and skins. So you know it's like, so there's nothing, it's just a uniform. Some guys are in Adidas shirts, some guys aren't. Right. They have different colored shirts in the world. Do they know about that? Or what? They just, I'm saying there are different, some teams will use shirts on both sides. That's how they distinguish. Like skins. Yeah okay yeah. Yep. Like skins. Like skins, Jane. Here's the form that you fill out. Your name, your email address, your cell phone number, your location, your age, are you ticklish, do you like to be tickled, what happens when you are tickled? Thanks for your time and interest. I get a boner and I have to suck other guys boners. I run around with a heart on screaming. I'll sign and do anything. What I've been shooting lately is unique, it explores several situations in which attractive ticklish masculine guys are actually tickled in two different restrained formats, then involved in demonstrating some ticklish skills themselves. Bizarre? Yeah. A bit maybe. Yeah. But the point is so much, but to the point, 750,000 guys apply from all over the world whenever a shoot is announced. Presently I'm shooting an all male cast. The project is called Competitive Endurance Tickling, suited for masculine athletic guys who are honestly ticklish. So she doesn't want- No bullshit. Jane doesn't want dudes who are like, hey man, I just need some photos. She wants this to be real. It must be great because there had to have been situations because she's so- Oh yeah. She's got it where a guy has been restrained and been like, oh, ha ha ha ha ha. No, no, no, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop. Oh, no, no, no, no, ha. Your dog was like, what the hell is going on? This is not meant to be a so-called quote unquote acting gig. This is what you're talking about. Don't bring your fake tickle laughter to my actual tickle show. No, she'll see right through it. How effective you are as a tickler, who is part of a team, presents a factor to be determined also. So you're not just, they don't just want people who, tickling is hard. Sure. I don't know if you've ever tickled a bro. Yes. Then, so you know the getting out of bros little tickly places. It takes a while sometimes with your bros when you're finding those tickly places. It can be very frustrating. But then it goes into the money and how much you're going to get. You're going to get $1,500. Participants will always be clothed in a provided Adidas t-shirt and a pair of gym shorts that we provide. So it's a provided pair of gym shorts that they provide. And a t-shirt they provide. Did I mention that they provide it? Who's providing these things? They are Jane. Okay. Jane Media. That's not clear. If I were them, I would maybe- I'm getting into who Jane O'Brien Media is. Pretty quick. I bet she has a mustache. The shoot is ideal for guys with looks and personalities of athletes, surfers, snowboarders, lifters, extreme sports participants, the outgoing type. Personal trainers are also perfect. No tattoos or so-called body art. Thank you. Again, that's from a situation. Clean. That's when a guy came in and he's like, she doesn't have tattoos, it's body art. She's like, that's that. Okay, no more fake laughers and no more body art tattoos, whatever they're calling them. No. I want them clean. Like a baby. Put him in the bleach. So I don't know why they emphasize again Adidas clothing. Like Adidas clothing is a thing where you have to be in the Adidas. I would love to know if Adidas knows about that. Oh yeah, but what can they do? Can't they be like, stop saying our name? Yeah, but why? No, they can't. I know why. I know why. If, why? Because you don't want to hit your wagon to a tickle competition that is probably just a gay orgy. I'm only like a quarter of the way through this. No, it sounds like right now it sounds like a legitimate tickle operation. Right now is very, very telling. Okay. And they actually have a legitimate photographer. He's the photographer of the San Francisco Giants. He's like the team photographer and he also happens to photograph tickle competitions. Sure. Well, listen, baseball is only most of the year. Asian males are particularly welcome to apply. Red flag, red flag. That's a red flag. And are at an advantage in the consideration process. What? Okay. So this is not just physical look. This is all about a competition. No, it is not. This is exactly what happens in like snowboarding competition. It is not. No, it is not. If you go to any like snowboarding competition, you'll see in the rules, we're looking for the best, the brightest, the strongest, preferably Asian, preferably you are of Asian descent. What? I'll never forget I had a roommate in New York, Matt, and he was a good looking guy. And he was trying to get into modeling. And then all of a sudden he got this offer and his agent was like, look, this is like a side thing and this happens. But they are offering you like 50 grand. And it's like a weekend thing and you go away and there are dudes who want to take pictures of you. And he's like, what? And it's like it's like this rich guy thing where you go. No one touches you. Like we have that all like, but they just want to be able to they like photograph you and you just like hang out nude and they shoot photos of you just like 50 grand. Yeah. He was like, Fuck, should I do it? I was like, feels kind of gross, dude. I would maybe do it now. It's so weird that they wouldn't offer it to you now. Listen, if you can get talk to Matt, get their contact info. I want to get in touch. I love this. Sounds like a great weekend. They're just like, get out of here. I'm like, you guys are almost out of pineapple. And so, you know, they they emphasize that it's it's not a gay thing. Good. Right? Yeah. Good. What do you mean? Good. That's good. That's a good thing to call out. Yeah, no, that's good. You want it? That's people who aren't trying to do gay things say that. Right. Yeah. Okay. So a reporter in New Zealand got a hold of this. It's like when I walked in today and I go, let's do a podcast. No, gay sex. Right. And then all of a sudden, we're having a fact and then we did this. I mean, it's just so reporter in New Zealand was like, well, this is fucking crazy. And he goes to the Facebook page and he sees that there's like 1700 likes and and he is a bisexual reporter. And he's like, okay, so there's a gay. Sounds like a great TV show. And his little bisexual reporter coming out on CBS on an all new bisexual reporter. What happens on the that's about it. He does stories both ways. He looks at both sides of the issue. So he sends a he goes to the Facebook page and he sends a message. And he or he just posts a thing and he says, hey, is anyone here who has competed a New Zealander? You know, just post it on the Facebook page. I want to talk to you. DM me please. And then Jane comes in. Jane right away. Jane. Yep. Jane jumps in. So far about five New Zealanders have competed. But to be brutally frank, association with a homosexual journalist is not something we will embrace. We desperately do not want a homosexual participant base applying for this project. My concern is your journalistic style, reputation and fan base in your own country. This is offered in earnest and strictly professional. So so someone like now notice that the dude the dude didn't he did nothing. He didn't come out and say, hey, I'm a bisexual journalist. Is anyone here who's competed in New Zealand? He said nothing. No. So Jane went did a little research. Of course. It was like, hey, homo, like just comes out crazy right out of the fucking shoot. I'm starting to think there's something off with this. So then he gets another message, good to follow up. By the way, just one more crazy thing. I am Debbie Cun. I am vice president for marketing operations for Jane O'Brien Media. I'm not Jane. We are different people. I also got I know she's the same person. I also had a global IT stuff. Well after a couple emails, she admits there is no Jane. I am not Jane. We're different people. Also there is no Jane. And I am both. And I am not gay. And you there's like that's happened a few times through this where they call out the thing they're doing so clearly. Yeah. So they email back and forth a few times. It's the same thing. You're gay. Look, it's not a gay thing. I'm just a journalist. My journalism doesn't have anything to do with being gay. And then and then he sends this email. Hey, Debbie, thanks for another follow up. Despite your Googling, what I think you're failing to grasp is that I work for Three News. Three News is a respected news organization. We have all sorts of people working as far as journalists go. But what we all have in common is that we are trained journalists and we do journalism. I for instance love cats. But this doesn't mean I love cats changes what I do for three news. I hope you rethink your stance and some at some stage and your logic. Thanks. Very, very well put very well put. Okay. So she responds, Oh boy, may I be respectfully but brutally frank about my logic that shared by almost all of Jane Media, she loses lose leave some words out is shared by all of Jane Media LLC about this larger issue. I love cats too, but this is not a social and spiritual taboo in in much or most of the world and societies as we know them. I am sharing this with you and not as part of the story. A monocom smiley face. Oh, cool. Just as Roman Catholic Bishop SSPX with Williamson didn't want news made of his personal denial of the Holocaust. Okay. So you know, it's always good to make Holocaust analogies. I think those go really well with something like this. I think that I think that it's a natural progression to to compare tickling to the Holocaust. Sure. Name one difference honestly. Well, six million dead Jews. Okay to me too. Mustaches. Alright, maybe they're a little diet. Those are two, but those are nitpick. Overall, they're the same. Those are nitpicky things. Much like the Holocaust. I'm sorry. What? I feel like you just brought Holocaust into a tickling conversation. That's right. And I would also like to add that we're having a tickling conversation. First of all, I hate fucking cats queer. So so now it's now he's like, I'm going to find out who this. Yeah, I'm great. Support him. So he goes through YouTube page and her and she's got an image. The L of the images of everybody we talk about in this story has a stock photo image. It's like they want to get to their stock price. Their catfishing all so it's she's got this huge YouTube page and they're all videos of men on beds and they're talking and then they all end in tickling. Yeah. So they're all really not gay videos. Yes. Right. And then he's like this bisexual weirdo didn't watch him. And then he digs a little further and he finds out the photographer who's who's doing all the shooting is listed as being interested in men and women. So now we have a homosexual. We have our in we have our mole. We have found a lead into gay. All right. We have a gatekeeper. We have a gatekeeper. OK. So then they get there. The three news people get their Internet guy on this to start digging. And he finds out that Debbie Kuhn dot F.E.R. is registered with the same German hosting company as Jane O'Brien Media dot com. So they're the same thing and other domains. All the websites are registered to Norman Vanderkoos. Wow. Well you can't write that one. I'm Norman Vanderkoos. But I've never heard of Jane. Norman Vanderkoos. Norman Vanderkoos. Now Norman owns. This feels like this is like a detective show. Norman owns a bunch of other domain names quite a few based around tickling more specifically tickling in the military. Oh my God. It's just I've never heard that before. You know tickling in the military. I'm sorry. Yeah we got to stop it. The guys can't they won't shoot. They're just too busy tickling. Incoming. Oh God. Jesus Christ. Tickling in the military tonight. And then he just keeps finding more domain names and more names. There's channel names like Let's Tickle Him mostly cage fighters introduced to tickle fights military tickling ticklish military guys from all over the world. It's just his home. Oh man. It's a ticklish military from all over the world. Al Qaeda when they're doing the monkey bars. Got you. Mohammed. Mohammed. Oh don't you think that was Allah? We must focus on destroying the devil. The United. Come on come on come on come on. Come on. I'm in the middle of this shit. Oh my God. Under the armpits is my Achilles heel. I'll tell you anyway the white devil. So then another writer decided another reporter decided to email Jane O'Brien. Jane I'm a journalist like David but I'm straight. Huh. Good. Taking another angle. Finally. I am in reasonably good shape and I'm getting married in a couple weeks to a human female. For bonus points I'm also white. Would you be interested in participating in a story I'm doing about bizarre and uncalled for homophobic discrimination against media personalities. Professionals that is likely to attract a great deal of attention for you. I anticipate your proper play. And then Jane who doesn't exist. Yeah he's not real. Responded. The more shrieking that homosexuals do the more our target audience is secure that a popular and well conceived project is not compromising to their masculinity. Our biggest problem at the onset was convincing suitable males that the competitive endurance tickling activities in which they were about to participate were anything and everything but gay. So that was their biggest. That's the biggest hurdle so far. Trust me. Look what is what is gay about this. We're just shirtless and we're like rolling around. Are you an athlete. Yeah. So do you do you think you could do like some endurance stuff. Yeah. Like sitting in a sweat box for 24 hours. Sure. Yes. We're doing a thousand sit ups. Yeah. Just having a bunch of dudes tickle you for five minutes. I'm sorry. What was the last one? Yeah. A bunch of gentlemen tickling you for five minutes. Right. No. I mean I. Yeah. Sure. Where do you. I gotta go. So let me just go to the bathroom and then I'll come right back out and I'll sign that binding paperwork. How's that sound? Yeah. Good. Your proposed coverage would be a massive assistance to a vetting process that is both legal and treasured when producing media in this kind of this kind of the USA. Google suggests that you are having so described yourself not quite a journalist like the frayer guy not one wee bit. I understand that you are to be heterosexually married and even were the union to be an ethnic. What follows would remain. May you enjoy many years of happy marriage and live long and prosperous with a. It is. I'm sorry. Did you miss the ethnic part? It is time to stop replying. It's just time for Norman to stop replying. And even let me just say this even if you are marrying a black person I hope you have a happy life. Look white. I hope you have a great life. Even black. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. Thank you. Sincerely not gay central president of tickled competitive tickling. What the fuck. Okay okay. And then they and then they sent another one. The Jane Jane sent another one. Yeah. I would like to give a polite personal response but you see you have designated me typically and somewhat accurately as someone who is bizarre in a dist in a tasteful distaste of homosexuals. Here's how I do it. I don't like homosexuals. But I'm doing it tastefully by trying to get them to make videos of them of young men tickling them. Oh well that makes sense. In a in a tasteful way. That makes a lot of sense. No no eating wires. He's eating that wire. He's eating this one. Okay. Bad dog. If he. No no. Back it up. I'm gonna take a head. Competitively. I love all blacks too. And may God defend your free land. But I have a distaste for certain things as well. Notice one thing. I have not assailed the so-called homosexual prerogative. But you Mr. Journalist are making my personal beliefs. I can't go on. I mean I can't even I'm starting to not understand what they're saying. Well it's okay then. It's okay to if you're trying to defend your your. Yeah. Some where. Your tickles. Let's call it. Your tickle business. Gay adjacent. Gay adjacent. Gay adjacent business. To just shut up and stop talking about. Yeah. The gay stuff. It's easy to shift gears. So so he basically saying this is an exclusively straight situation. Yeah. So what it is is. It's a straight situation. He doesn't want. He doesn't want. Gay guys. To find out about this because he wants he wants straight guys tickled because that's his thing right. Well because that's not gay. The second you let a gay guy into this. It's going to take on that really kind of like gayish vibe. Yeah. Then it's like guys tickling. Yeah. Then guys will start tickling each but in a gay way. In a gay way. In a gay way. This is you want straight tickling not gay tickling. I want straight ticklers doing gay tickles. And I don't want a gay guy near it. My name is Norman Vanderpoops. Oh God. So but then he's black stuff is weird. Well that's just a little spice. You got the story with mustard. So the reporter puts up the first reporter puts up a picture of who one of the New Zealand ticklers right. He finds it somewhere. OK. And he says hey I want to I want to talk to this guy in New Zealand is a small place. Yeah. So he quickly finds out through the Internet who the dude is. And the dude contacts him and says take down my photo or I'll sue you. I'll get my fucking lawyers involved. I did not want to be a part of the story. I did not agree to be part of the story. Take down my thing. So the reporters like that's totally cool. I was just trying to find you if you don't want that there but you have to do an interview with me. Yeah. And so the guy says I'll do an anonymous interview with God. He said yes. So now how do you think guys get involved in this. How do I think guys get involved in this. Yeah. Do you think these guys are gay. Well I bet what I bet it's like people who are gay for pay almost. I bet it's not like their models their dudes in like little fucking towns like in Minnesota and they're like oh it's like a modeling gig. So but they say right off the bat that it's tickling right. Yeah but to them it's just like it's like a shoot. It's like a shoot. Right. So they're thinking oh I'm going in on this weird shoot. Right. And it's just it's just going to be a thing where like it's like a tickling shoot. I'm just with other bros. But then when they get there they but they're treated totally respectfully through the whole thing and it's exactly what it says it is. You get there and you it's a weekend of tickles. See now if you frame it like that I might come. Are you coming to the weekend of tickles. See what is it. Get paid you get paid 1500 bucks. Right. So it's a fucking all good. Yeah it's an all good for sure. So the dude that's what the dude says and he says look I don't want my name out there. This is already going to be weird enough for this is just what he says in the interview is basically corroborate. Yeah he said no. He says he says yeah I was I'm a model right like an amateur model. I saw this as a gig. I was like yeah I'll do this. I got a portfolio out of it. And then he asked one question again he said hey do you feel good or bad about how all this has gone down. And he said I don't want to answer your questions anymore. Whoa. OK. All right. So. It's a good. That's a good answer. Just say good. I guess I believe. What does the word bottom mean to you. So now this story's been up for a couple of days and some and also there's some comments on the news blog page. OK. And some readers say it sounds awfully like a woman named Terry De Soto De Sisto who went by the name Terry tickle online and solicited videos of attractive men in 2000. You know it's great as it's the name is Terry. I'm like is it a man or a woman what psycho is this. And at that time she put up a post she said guys interest me guys that are young basically 18 to 23 hot on the thin side not too big and buff no body fat no body hair and ticklish no sex or nudity or wanted in my videos. I just want to see guys tied up and merciless mercilessly relentlessly tickled. So that's just the lady. Sure. Asking for what she wants. Just the lady who came home drunk from Chippendales blogging. Now she became the subject of an FBI investigation for what David for conducting an online campaign against a young man who somehow offended her. Oh my God. The FBI. We'll get back to that later. Put a pin in it. So now the Internet guy keeps digging and one of Jane O'Brien media lists one active company officer as Kevin Clark of New York. Now if you Google Kevin Clark and tickling. Which I do. It appears that Clark is a well-known director of gay porn specifically twink porn. Oh yes. Do you know what twink porn is? I do. I had no idea what twink porn was. All right. Twink is a gay slang term describing a young or young looking man with slender ectomorph build little or no body hair and no facial hair. In some societies the terms fox, plum, chick or chickens are preferred. That's news to me. Get me a nice chick. Wait a minute. A chick? Yeah. I want to fuck a chick. Like the one with the vagina. No like a hairless man. A hairless kid. A hairless 19 year old. So is it is what I'm reading this correctly that they're they're supposed to seem underage but they're not. Twinks are just supposed to look very young and skinny and hair. Yeah. Yeah. It's they go great with a bear. On the on the Wikipedia page I went to there's a picture of a twink and it said Brett Corgan won best amateur 2008 twink performer slash bottom. So they have categories top and bottom for twink. Slash bottom. Top and bottom. Oh God. I hope I win top this year. I mean I was I've been bottom last two years. It's great. It's great. Don't get me wrong. I love it. But I'm really looking to break out this year and start to do my own top stuff. It's named after the hostess Twinkie. Okay. Because it has little nutritional value is sweet to taste and cream filled. Yeah. There we go. I was waiting for it. At some point I knew. And it has three holes. It has three holes. Yeah. Twinkies do know. Yeah. They did the little injection holes. Oh really. Yeah. And so does a human twink. A man has three holes. Well a man has three. Well you can't put your dick in one hole. You can put your dick in another guy's dick hole. What? Yeah. Yeah. You just need a ray gun. I won't talk to you anymore. Wait. Stick around. So so this person said Kevin Clark is a twink director of World Renown. He's with anybody who matters in gay porn. He is responsible for some of the top selling twink releases. I've personally seen very successful directors melt down when meeting him. I've heard more than one tell him you are the reason I am in this business. Wow. So he's like the king twink. He's king twink. So so and he's also part of Jane O'Brien media. Right. Oddly. Which again I'm sure she doesn't know because she will not have any gays near her project. Okay. So now it gets weird. Oh good. I was like in my head I was like this is kind of like boring but I would love for it to get go somewhere. So finally. So the internet guy discovers there's a tell by your face you're excited. There is a guy going by the form name Angel of Death who claims to be a US Marine Corps Brigadier General and he is connected to the Vimeo account of Deborah Kuhn. Deborah Kuhn of the email exchange. The domain. So so Jane O'Brien dot com was registered to Norman van der Koos. Right. Frankfurt Germany. And he also has ticklish guys casting dot com ticklish guys online dot com military tickling dot com. Right. She goes guys USA dot com attention deck dot com. Right. Of course. Which is right. I get it. Reality ticking dot US tickling training dot com. The training is great. Yeah. That's really good. You have to go through that I think in order to really know how to compete. Okay. So he's going through now he's going through all this shit and he finds one of vendor vendor Koos his company Norman Vandek has a Vimeo channel of a US Marine Corps Lance Corporal calling him a disgrace to his uniform. Okay. So it's Corporal Maximilian you are they and I have his where do I have his. Okay so that's oh wow. That's him and I god damn it I wish that the sound was working on this because let's pause it right here. Yeah. Boy poor bastard. Well that was sad. Yeah. So the video is no but basically so he put up this website this dude. Maximilian Maximilian and the sound is not working on our phones and I can't use it on the computer because we're recording. Right. But basically it's a loop of a guy laughing and saying please stop. Oh my god. I wish you could play it. So if you go to Maximilian Urarte M-I-X-I-M-I-L-I-A-N-U-R-I-A-R-T-E dot com you will hear the loop of a guy begging someone to stop tickling and a picture of the dude and saying he was dishonorably discharged. So wait. Okay. Why was he dishonorably discharged. He wasn't. Oh okay. Okay. It turns out that Lance Corporal Maximilian Urarte runs a site called terminal Lance dot com where he makes fun of marine life. He does like cartoons and Marines go to it and they have forums and it's like a place for them to fucking laugh about being in the Marines. Right. So he booted some guy from a forum for being weird. I think we know who. So then he starts getting messages from this guy and he says your site violates the terms of service and acceptable use policies of the Marines in this instance of all the providers represented by the Red Hops upstream in the trace route chart. So he's clearly knows. Right. He knows about computers and he knows about since you removed what was a popular thread you're right. I have the right to exercise mine. When I honorably discharge I did so rather high up on the O chain or orgasm chain. We have created website Marine and are making a nice future for yourself. If you really want to have a problem with me and be responsible for conduct unbecoming that will become more of a legend than DC I hope we could enjoy a good relationship. You're in college. Would you like some assistance. No strings attached or there's the other way. Hope to hear from you respectfully. AOD. So wait wait now who was the guy being weird on the forums. That's what I want to know because it's clearly not that guy. No that's not a weird guy. I know that's not a weird guy. That is not a weird guy. That's not the same guy. So then this guy gets mad and sets up this fucking web page. He takes the dude who owns owns the fucking website takes his name Max. That's actually his name. A.D. com and puts up a picture of him and a tickling loop. Oh my God. And then this is all under the the vendor coos. It's all owned by the better. So there's so now there's a good part of the family. So he's created a little bit of a trace back to himself right. What a fucking psycho. So now they got it. So it's registered to Vandercroft's. And the general clearly has tickle issues. Nothing. There's nothing wrong with that. So then through this they find out that the quote unquote brigadier general has a Twitter account called Angel of Death. Oh OK. Now Angel of Death as you can see it is at AOD USMC. Now Angel of Death has what I would describe as a tickling Twitter. It's got a twinkle a twinkle a tickling fetish. And who's the first video posted there. Debbie Kuhn. So what the fuck. So he is posting Debbie Kuhn videos and notifications of her video uploads as well as tickling related tweets and the tickling for the tweets are hashtag ticklish hashtag tickling hashtag tickled hashtag struggle hashtag resist as Ted's TJ Gretzner as Ted's laughter hashtag ticklish laughter hashtag gay hashtag homo hashtag outed hashtag fired hashtag fag. That's just one of the many great tweets. Yeah I felt like over 140 characters maybe I'm wrong. It's a lot of hashtag. OK now now the vendor vendor coo vendor go ahead. Murder vendor. No one vendor. VU is registered as the neater Dyshten group. Oh yeah sounds like New York. The address lists David DeMato with the Garden City New York address. So he's the owner of all of the traces that David David DeMato. We have our maid. We have a new guy. Yeah right. Yeah. Now David DeMato brings us back to another name who came up earlier. Terry De Sisto the woman the Internet Internet commenters brought up who was investigated by the FBI for going after young ticklish men. Sure aggressively. OK so in the 1990s a tickle fetish queen popped up on the Internet Terry De Sisto and began spamming Internet user groups offering young guys cash and or new computers exchange for videos of them being tickled. Hi my name is Terry. Oh no. I'm a female college student in Boston Massachusetts area that is a total tickling freak. Well as a hoppy one that cost me a lot of money I maintain a personal collection of amateur videos featuring guys being tickled usually for 30 to 60 minutes. Oh my God. I would shit myself. Oh my God. Just everything would come out of my body 30 to 60 minutes. That would be great to send one like that. There you go. We made it to 60 minutes like you want it not going to like it's pretty graphic around minute nine things go off the rails real hard. I don't know what's wrong with David food poisoning but he just it's terrifying. Featuring guys being tickled by a girlfriend good girlfriend a good girl girlfriends or even guy friends. I'm not a business video trader porn solicitor. My interest is in tickling. Yes of course. Nobody would say that's Terry. That's just classic Terry. Now fast forward to 2001. OK. So Terry De Sisto De Sisto was exposed by the FBI to actually being a 40 year old the former high school educator by the name of David DiMato. I love that he was a teacher in high school. I also love what else would he be. Hey guys open up your books and just go ahead. Hey guys come on. Stop that. Stop that study. A little more horseplay. Who wants extra credit. Horseplay guys. Come on guys a little more horseplay back there please. Hey you guys want to play Magic Fingers. Hey guys who wants to play under desk. I love that he didn't even change the last name. No it's not. I mean he came close but it was so so it's also very close. There was never any 23 year old perky blonde Boston college student. She's not real. There's not this blonde college student with millions of dollars to give computers to twinks. And he is just a fat. Oh I erased it because I didn't want you to see it but he's just this fat gross blob of a man. That's always how it is. That's how the guy who put together all those boy bands who was like he looked like he looked like a wizard turned Jabba the Hutt into a human and he was just sitting there just like yeah. Oh God they all look the same. Look how look how gross. Like he looks like he looks like he just eats boys. Right. Oh yeah. It looks like he lives underneath a house and comes out every once in a while to eat a boy. He looks like the kind of gay the guy John Wayne Gacy be like hey man relax. Slow down. It's not get so crazy. Maybe you shouldn't come into John Wayne's house. Pop the brakes a little bit. Okay. Now turn off my skin lamp. So he had actually fabricated a social security number for Teresa de Sisto and obtained a credit card and name so that he could do business over the. So he created a fake person and got a social security number for tickling for tickling. I got it. How do I do this. How do I how do I make this happen. All right. Look it's I'm at that point now where I either just stop which is fine. I could just stop or I can get real weird and I can start fake identities and I could create a tickling competition you know. So on the one hand I can sort of like you know whatever I had fun. I got mine or I can just go all in and just fuck. Let's go. That's it. Fuck it. I'm going to create new people. He was sentenced for harassing this kid. He was sentenced to six months incarceration and a halfway house and fined five thousand dollars and he began his sentence the next month just in time for him to begin studying law at Fordham University School of Law. So wait. He's terrifying. He's getting a legal degree. Yeah. He's getting fake IDs. He's going all in. So like he's getting a law degree not because he's like I'm pursuing my dream of being a lawyer. He's like I need to know how to get away with tickling. This is someone that Batman should be looking into. And it's tickling. Like every time you come back and say that it's just like a reminder. Not gay. No. Just tickling. This is just a man who's created a few different people for guys who are hairless preferably Asian in their 20s to sign legally binding contracts that he can not masturbate to ever. He's just a 23 year old college girl like the rest of us. So people were pretty upset by the sentence by getting six months. In my view, justice has not been served says Charles Dirksen, a San Francisco lawyer who collected the testimony from Terry Tickle's victims. It was more slap on the wrist and doesn't show appreciation of the harm he caused nor does it deter future abuse. But I heard that Larry DeSisto commented on that article. I don't know. This guy seems pretty cool and gets it. So in August 2000 and in that radio channel, I was on Internet radio in 2000. Yeah, I was I was on comedy comedy radio. Oh, you were on on it. Yeah. Oh, Jesus. And me and Greg Beran had a show on. I mean, no one was listening. But the fact that this guy started Internet. Yeah, you were like, technically, you could have bumped into him at a party. It was about it be broadcasted, the audio files of young men being tickled. And then speaking of their tickling experience after a nice behind the scenes of it all. It's like a storytellers ticklish guys dot com. So interested parties could go there and, you know, get involved. Ticklish guys dot com was a free website until 2001 when it was then shown as owned by ticklefilms.com was owned by a man named Darren Starr, David Starr. I'm waiting for us to find out who David Starr is. So then they worked together for a while and then things got weird between Starr and DeMotto. So in 2006, a case was opened by DeMotto suing Starr over the allegedly false and defamatory statements posted on various blogs, forums and websites. This is like never go back to the weird military guy. But also the idea of like you're defaming me. It's like, no, no, no, you've defamed you. You're the tickle king of the fucking world. You're the self-proclaimed tickle king. So Starr posted a letter to the judge saying he's been lying to the attorneys and all this stuff. One such lie is David DeMotto's statement that he's no longer involved in tickling websites or the production of tickling videos. I would like to share a couple of letters written by David in December 2001 stating that he's ready to expand his tickling productions, not curtail them. So this dude has had a plan for all of this shit for all of this time. David Starr has allegedly created the blog ticklishguyscasting.net in parallel with wwwticklishguyscasting.com, which he said was owned by David DeMotto and another man named Dex Jones. It features videos of young men being tied up in tickle. Ticklishguyscasting.com is currently owned by Norman van der Koos. Who's van der Koos? He's the guy who owns everything. And he's no, he's David DeMotto. He is. Yeah. He's the guy that when they tracked it down, they went to the New York business stuff. David DeMotto is all of these people. All of them. All of them. And someone has even said that they don't think Starr exists. They think that Starr, he created Starr and he's actually fighting himself in court. Oh my God. That jury I'd stick around for. Look at him. He's fat and disgusting. And then he runs over to the other side. He's like, what are you talking about? That's defamation. And then he runs to the other side. He's like, I'm sorry. I didn't mean that. So basically every person except for the reporters that we've named is David DeMotto. Right. Every person who's sane is not David DeMotto. Every crazy person who likes twinks tickling is David DeMotto. Who looks like the guy who put together Nsync. And here's a quote to wrap it up. Here's a quote from the Drexel student that he harassed and went to jail for. Well halfway house. It's scary that he still uses the internet. Oh my God. No, that's horrible. That's like the last thing you see at a horror preview. It's like the last bit of text. How fucking insane is that? It's just the craziest. Like you, a guy sends you a message and says, have you heard about competitive and deris tickling? And then it leads to the most insane trail of a disturbed. You must just be like the idea that you're like, you're even like putting pins in a wall and probably like we'll have yarn connecting certain things and then you just go, it's tickling. He's got it. He's got it on his wall. He's got all these pins and names and yard attaching it right in the middle. It just says tickle. Dex Jones. He's crossing out Dex Jones. His wife's down there like honey, come to bed. He's like, hold on. I'm bisexual. You shouldn't be here. Hold on. I'm the angel of death right now. Hold on. I'm on the weirdest Twitter. Sometimes I don't know where this case ends and you start honey. Look, I just got to tell you I'm finding him. If I could just figure out who Norman Vandersoen is, your Norman, right? God damn it. Someone get David star on the phone. David. Your David star, right? Well, that was J. O'Brien. Yeah, no J. O'Brien. Wait, it's you. That's why there isn't one. All right. Get me Terry. God damn it. You're Terry. All right. Look. Oh, fuck it. I'm going to go have lunch with Debbie. You're Debbie. You're all of them, you moron. Boy, I'll tell you, I just can't believe they're letting these queers get married. Coming from the guy who created five identities to start a tickle league? Yeah. Gross. They're probably walking around us right now. We don't even know it. Anyway, I got to go look at these hairless Asians, see if they'll work to be tied up and tickled for 30 to 60 minutes. Oh my God. Holy shit. Wow. I really, this is a different, this is almost like the second head of an equally crazy thing from last week. It's just so amazing that nobody knows about these. These are such strange things. When you wonder how many guys there are like there. Like him? Yeah. There's got to be. Oh, probably lots. Because this is just one guy was like, oh, look at this tickling website. And then he happened to investigate. This is their Obama. He's the leader. I don't think there's any questioning that. When you said like ticklishboys.net, I was like, well, and then you're like, Andy owns ticklishboys.com. It's like, okay. So he's just, I guess, worried about traffic going to the wrong. It's really easy to reroute someone. He's like, no, I want to buy it. I need it. It's for Debbie. You're Debbie. I'm not. I'm talking to Debbie right now on the phone. I'm on the phone with Debbie. You're holding a doll arm. Get out of here. I'm not gay. I'm not gay. Who said I was gay? Nobody said anything. I told you dinner's ready. I'm not gay. And I'm excited. It smells good. Oh, and I tell you, the guys are coming over for tickling later. I mean, poker, poker, poker, poker. Jesus Christ. Don't come downstairs. Oh, fuck, man. And just the fact that he looks like that. I'll post the photo on the. Well, it's not surprising because there's no way that he would look good. No, he can't look good. He can't. That guy's been sitting in a home that is a cave. Yeah. He's got all these plans. Yes. And I. And here's the thing, though. He's making money off of this. He's making a living. How? Because because just the views there. So there I've got to be a ton of he probably members. So do dudes who are like, I'm not gay, but I'm going to watch dudes tickle each other. You know, the guys are lying to themselves. This is the ultimate thing for them. Like dudes, because the fantasy is and then there's also the gay guy fantasy of, oh, I'm just tickling my straight friend and then all of a sudden I'm blowing him. There's that. What's my ticklish with my mouth hand? Yeah. So that's a fantasy. But mostly it's for guys are like, I'm not gay, but I just like to watch guys tickle and then maybe I jerk off. Not gay. That's like the people of the jail parties on Craig's. Have you ever seen that? Yeah. Those are equally as sad. Nothing gay. Just suck my dick. Nothing gay. The gay. Yeah, but they always look they all. Well, I mean, he has that he could not look like a like a guy who could get laid by men. If he did, he wouldn't know that guy couldn't. If that guy, that guy could all he could do is lay down on top of someone. Yeah. Maybe hurt them. Yeah. I mean, this is a guy who's masturbated in a 7-eleven parking lot. Without question. For sure. I'll put I'll put all my and Debbie's money on it and Terry's and Norman's. Wait until we find out he's still a teacher or something. Oh my God. Right. Imagine. Yeah, but do you think he's so so they're flying these kids in to do these shoots. They're paying. So there's five guys are paying 1500 bucks, but 1750 each. Yeah. Plus plus the air and travel. So they're spending thousands of dollars, maybe 15,000 a shoot, 20,000 a shoot or more. So they've got to be making a shit lot of money off this. Or he's just a crazy billionaire. He can't be though. Look at him. He's nothing. He's like a fudge eater. The only photo of him is from like 1949. It's really old. He looks like he's with whitey bulger. Anyway he's out on the internet you guys. Hey guys, he's out there if you want to hit him up. He's at David at Debbie at Terry at Norman at gmail.com. So all of these dudes who are there. So these models are good do it. Then what happens to them? What what power does he have? What pictures did he take? What is he blackmailing him? What does he have? It has to be. Yeah, he's got him totally fucked. Yeah, he's definitely. Yeah, he's probably the point where he's like, all right, send me a picture of your dick and like that. He's probably flying them out there like, look, we can make this real easy. Just turn off the lights in the bedroom and you just come in and just do your business. Okay. And then I'll burn those photos. I promise. Look, I really like you, Greg. You're just a great guy. Greg, if you come out to New York and just tickle me for a couple of minutes. Hey. Until the white stuff comes out. Hey, it's hey, it's me, Dave. I know it's late, but anyway, you could take a red eye out here. Give me a brunch tickle. Make it worth your while. BT. BT. Again, until the white stuff comes out. All right. Well, I don't know how I feel about this one. Very, very weird. Yeah, very weird. Very weird. Very weird. I mean, I feel dirty. I feel scared. Yeah. I'm worried for these poor guys. Yeah. These guys are fucked. Guys. Someone's got to stop the tickle party. Listen, I think the way to do this is for us to start our own third party, the tickle party. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And let's get involved in politics. I'll run. You can be the VP however you want to slice it. Are you going to send a video? I'm making a ton of them. Yeah. I'm front loading. We really should submit me though, just for a laugh. Yeah. We kind of have to just to see what the sponsor would be. Come over here and take a couple of shirtless pics real quick before we do the next one. And then send them in with a real creepy letter to see what happens and then do an update. Let's do that. All right. That's perfect. And hopefully I'll have a mustache by then. Oh my God. That'd be amazing. No. God damn it. I was so clear. You're not Asian. The Holocaust is fake. Wait, what? Wait, what happened? Delete the last part. Don't marry black people. Jesus Christ. It's just one dude in his apartment.