 This is weird. Yeah. Why do people say that people say this is funny Dave? Okay. Just a guy screaming about Mike Tyson. He's really screaming. He's with no one right. So this is I guess this is episode four. It's called nine. Whatever. I mean does anybody fucking care? I don't care. Keeping track of shit. No. And if people are worried about it we say those are the lost episodes man. Yeah. Go on. We can't find them. No yeah. That's what we can do when we're like having an interview 40 years from now with Grey Beards. We'll be like the last episodes? I'm Dave Anthony with Gareth Reynolds. What was I going to say about oh so the guy the reporter who broke the story about competitive tickling. The tickling update. The bisexual reporter. Yes. The guy who's doing homo. Your homo reporting is doing a Kickstarter to get a documentary going. Oh my god. About the competitive tickling story. So I will put up links on Twitter and Facebook and stuff. I'll definitely donate. It's yeah. It's pretty fucking great. Actually I can probably. Oh I just turned it off. But he did send me the little link. Wait the reporter did? Yeah he contacted me and he was like. He contacted you? He listened to the podcast. Get the fuck out of here. Yeah he was like oh it was really great to hear and all that shit. You responded to him. You didn't know that was him. No I didn't know I was responding to the bisexual reporter. Who was it? His name is David Ferrier. Oh yeah. Dave are you excited bro? Yes. Are you excited? Yeah. Yeah. May 14th is the next live virtual dollop. We'll be doing another dollop with Looped Live. It'll be 6 p.m. Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual dollop. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of like media in them. Videos and pictures. David does a very great job and they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade. Arby's we've got the meats. No no no wrong copy Dave. Wrong copy. This is for the. Yeah just stick to what we're doing. So May 14th Looped Live 6 p.m. Pacific time. Join us again for another live virtual dollop. We've got the meats. Let's get to this week's. Sure. Topic. Sure. Should I say it or do you want to? Do you believe in ghosts? What's your ghost situation? My ghost my ghost-uation is. I don't. I don't strongly believe in ghosts. I mean it wouldn't be the sort of thing that I would be shocked if I had an encounter of some sort but I don't I don't strongly believe. So you're agnostic. I'm agnostic with most things. Yeah. Because that seems like the avenue that we should all be. So you think. Right. Until someone captures a ghost and puts it in a cage. Yeah. Until there's real Ghostbusters or until God is before me going like do you want to come to heaven then I'm agnostic. How great would it be if someone caught a ghost and put it in a cage. Hey come on. Let me go. Let me out of here. 18 percent of Americans say they've seen a ghost. Okay. 29 percent of people also claim to have been in touch with the dead. So I'm not sure what that means. Yeah. That means like you chatted or. Yeah. You slept with one. Or like you got up and there was like a post-it. Gone booing. Fuck. Dead now. Be back later. Oh OK. Oh he's still dead. I'll leave the door open. Oh wait it doesn't matter. I thought I saw a ghost when I was a kid but it's one of those things where like everyone else I was in bed and I thought I saw it at the end of the bed. Right. It was a very old ranch house that our family used to have. OK. So people would live there and died there. Sure. So I thought I saw an old couple but they also happen to have a picture of that old couple in the house. So it. I'm probably talking about a dream. Maybe. Who knows. Maybe you're hanging out with the old couple in the ranch house. So two stories that I read this week are the reason that I. That we're talking ghosts. I had no idea about ghost hunters. I mean do you mean no idea. Well I would see the show on sci-fi. Yeah. So you knew that there was a business. I figured it was all based on. Fuck what was the movie where they put the kids cameras and they put them out in the floor. Blair Witch Blair. Yeah. It was all based on like the ending of Blair Witch and the Blair Witch stuff. Right. Like it just all seemed like let's copy that and do shows. Yeah. Like it just seemed ridiculous to me. Ghost hunting is amazing. OK. Maybe. Maybe I don't even know how amazing. But I just know from the periphery seeing those shows you are just like what is like they're just literally be in a room with no signs of anything like recording a bunch of shit they'll go listen to it or like look at it and be like oh whoa. Look at that jump. That jump. Did you hear that. A jump. It's like a clung. What is she trying to say to us. I do not. If I sat at my house and just quietly do you know how many noises I would hear of just like oh what was that. Oh my God. That was that was potato chips settling. Yeah. Oh no. The evil potato chips. So this story was in USA today this week. Someone or something is tickling people. And this is not going to come to tickling podcast. But this just happened to be the story that I started to read. OK. Tickling people rearranging shoes and otherwise wreaking havoc at the historic Hotel Somerset in New Jersey. I mean if you're leading with rearranging shoes what other hell are they causing. What the fuck is happening with my. Oh no. My sandals on my my doctor. Oh no. It's a Main Street boarding house and a home of a popular McCormick's pub. So you don't see how people could in any way come up with ghosts with that combination. No no. So three three residents have complained that their feet have been tickled while sleeping. Most recently during the past three weeks by Curtis Jones a resident of the hotel for seven years. So he's a seven year hotel. So if you live in a hotel for seven years I take everything you say at face value. OK guy who still has a maid come to his room every day to give him towels. What tickled you. I don't think this is kind of place for the maid. Jones said his neck also gets tickled in the middle of the night and something messes up the order of his shoes beneath his bed. OK OK. So shit's getting so far the evidence is overwhelming. So right now the ghost is a four year old. Yeah I just wanted to go away said Jones a 67 year old Vietnam veteran who suffers from post traumatic stress disorder. Oh uh huh. OK. The story strengthens. So the owner is like OK. So we have ghosts. OK. A war veteran said his shoes got rearranged. We're haunted. So he believes it because he five years ago someone else said their feet got tickled in the middle of the night. So now we have a syndrome. An outbreak. And it's the same room where a tenant had died many years before. Oh Christ. Oh Jesus. So A plus B equals fucking rearranging shoe ghost. So he called in the paranormal diagnostics group. Good. Now they're PDG good. They are two dudes who use scientific equipment to confirm or debunk sure ghosties. Absolutely. They're respiratory therapists. Oh good. So there's a lot of crossover there. So day job is. So what you want to hear from your respiratory therapist who's like yeah. He breathe in breathe out is hey last night I was taking ultraviolet ultraviolet images of orbs. Hey so it looks like that bronchitis is clearing up which is really nice. Anyway I got a role. I'm actually getting in the van to go hunt ghosts later. So but I really like I think you're really improving. But me and my brother go catch ghosts at night. So I got to put on all black. Have you seen Scooby Doo. They're 42 and 48. OK so kids couple kids couple of guys. They have investigated the hotel for like three weeks and they said they've collected more evidence paranormal activity evidence than is seen in one episode of ghost hunters. Well that's that's not saying anything. Well that no that's that's that's the ghost hunter factor scale. Yeah of three. That's like me being like I ran further than this guy than a guy in a wheelchair. I ran way farther. I've never seen the show. Is it that it's that bad. It is never find anything. Well I guess I mean you I think you need to want them to find something in order for you to really be like oh wait maybe this is something because that show is not evidence based. I mean they're just it'll be like a camera will shake. It's shot like the Blair Witch a lot. Are you saying oh no that a show about ghosts is not evidence based. I am saying that the shoes being rearranged is the strongest case I've heard also. And I think now that I don't believe in ghosts now that I'm hearing this. Well OK. So this is what he said. This is what this is one of the guys McCaffrey said. He's the older one. He's the 40 years he didn't need to tell me that his name is McCaffrey. We have several sound recordings and videos of flashes and shadows. Well there we go. We got our shoe. We caught him. The ghost hunters use UV meters to measure fields of energy laser lights and smoke machines to discover shadows orbs and other images and thermal imaging and night vision video cameras to capture them. So it's basically a disco. Yeah. Bring in a disco and they go let's get some ghosts. Fucking insane. Like what in what world like who says that that's how you get you might as well bring a plant in. That's a fucking ghost. How are you going to figure out how to capture like there's no there's no rules on what can find a ghost. Yeah. I mean we're really going off a ghost busters. That's all. Yes. That's probably it. Right. As far as I know. Any other. That's it. That's all I know. Ghost busters. So you need one of those little weird traps that shoots lights out of it. So the team these guys got into. So here's where it gets weird. Those two guys are the team. Those guys are the team. That's the whole team. That's the whole team. So this is where it gets weird because at the beginning of the story it sounds like the owner. The tickling thing happened then another tickling thing happened five years ago and then he called them. Right. But then you get down further in the story and it says the team interest in the Revolutionary War led them to the hotel Somerset. So then it sounds like they actually went to the hotel. Yeah. So it's a little dubious reporting. OK. That's interesting. Right. I mean, that's a red flag. I know it's USA Today, but you might want to just reread it just to be safe. Yeah. I mean, they just happen to go to the oldest continuous hotel in the country. So it's the hotel established in 1748. And during the American Revolution, George Washington ate there and his men slept there while Washington stayed at the nearby Dutch Wallace House. So clearly. Go, go, go. Obviously, Mr. Washington, what's the matter? My my loafers have been arranged again improperly again, sir. Book me a room next door. I can't live like this. Put me in the Wallace House. The shoes. Something has tickled me again. The shoes, Johnson. A medium. So then the the Jesus Christ, what are they called? The Paranormal Diagnosis Group went and if you need it again, they went and talked to a medium because that's what you do. First of all, is you go, hey, what's up with this place? And she sat down and drew a diagram of the room without having ever seen it. There was a door. She did. She knew there was a door. My God. She could sense the presence of three deceased children. Right. Yeah. So that confirmed their suspicions. The shoe thing makes a lot of sense now said there's a closet with a vortex of paranormal activity, which if you've ever seen the movie. What's it called? Poltergeist Poltergeist. Have you seen it? There's a closet. Yes. Where there's a lot of paranormal activity. Yes. Yeah. So are you insinuating that this medium just true a set from the poltergeist? Well then she says and there's a big bad clown. Oh, that comes out and sucks everything into the closet, but that'll happen later. Hey, what? It's buried on an Indian burial ground. Something definitely is going on at the foot of the bed. McCavrey said reaction to extensive energy readings, usually indicative of appliances or electrical wiring. Yeah. The energy readings. Hey girl. Hey girl. Why are you not scrolling? Hello. Okay. We were able to debunk the readings in Curtis Jones front door. That's the guy with PTSD. Yeah. That's the veteran. Because there's an electrical wiring there. So that's definitely not a ghost. But there's nothing electrical at the foot of his bed. That's true. There's also readings there. That's weird. So that's going on. He said- Love to have a look at these readings too. Okay. So they went in. He asked his parents. So the guy runs out and tells like, hey, maybe I'll ask my parents about this. Cool. I've done that before I brought in the PDG. Yeah, before you bring in the PDG for sure. So there were five tenants who died in the hotel and another killed himself by jumping out of a window in the same room. Well, this would have all been good stuff to ask your parents. I just want to reconfirm what we're saying. Yeah. How about this? Another one killed himself by jumping out the window in the same room in which McCormick and his family stayed. Hey, son, by the way, before you- Stay in that room. Remember, there's extra sheets on the bed and then Larry jumped out the window. What's that? Larry jumped out the window. In that room that you're staying in with your family, Larry jumped out the window. Okay. Is there a breakfast in the morning? How's that work? Continental B. Continental B. Larry. In the first paranormal investigation of the hotel three weeks ago, the PDG said they saw and took photos of blue orbs. But, well, here's the thing. Gareth. Dave, the thing is that when a picture gets taken, sometimes there's a flash, right? Blue orbs. Right. Technically a blue orb, right? If you think about it. Right. So that could be that. Ghosts. Or it could be ghosts. Or it could be ghosts, for sure. Or it could be a flash. Okay. So you don't know science. No, I don't know science. No, no, no. So you're- An idiot. Well, you're one of those guys who's like, this can't be real. Yeah, that's true. Orbs. Yeah. Orbs. All right. Fuck. Jesus. Orbs. In the attic, the team also recorded audio of what seemed to be the name Evelyn. Oh, well, that makes sense. Because if you're a ghost, you're just caught on the introduction. Oh, hold on. McCormick told the team that an Evelyn Eprite lived behind the hotel in a home that was torn down in the mid-1960s. As they sat at a booth around a laptop computer, they played back the recording and McCormick's jaw dropped when he heard the voice say, Evelyn Eprite. He burst out of his seat and yelled, you've got to be kidding me. You've got to be fucking kidding me. I'm about to do the same thing. That's the lady's name. So Evelyn Eprite. Can we hear? Well, no, here's the deal with ghosts. They cruise around as little balls of light and just say their name. I mean, it sounds like a good existence. The afterlife sounds fun. Just fucking in a room just like Gareth Reynolds, Gareth Reynolds, Gareth Reynolds. Hello, Gareth Reynolds, Gareth Reynolds. Till finally like the PDGs there. You're like, Gareth Reynolds, Gareth Reynolds, Gareth Reynolds, Gareth Reynolds. The team played the recording several more times at various speeds as you would do. Hey, slow it down. Speed up. Yeah, that's like when they used to say that on like an album, if you played it backwards, you could hear anything. Anything. You can play it backwards. It's like, yeah, yeah, yeah. The voice clearly said Evelyn, clearly, but this time when they slowed it down, it went Evelyn. Hello, my name is Evelyn. Boo, I'm a ghost. Boo, hey, hey. It pronounced the same symbolism and rhythm as upright. So pronounce the same syllables and rhythm as upright. So not saying upright. Yeah, right. So technically manipulated to sound like the rhythm of the name. So what we're saying is the name upright was never said. Have you heard of rhyming? Orbs of light. OK, are you ready for the connection? I really am excited. Yet other than once living next to the hotel, Evelyn upright had no connection to it. But a Dorothy upright was a waitress there in 1954. So obviously what happened in the ghost world, Dorothy was haunting the hotel after she passed. Evelyn passed. Yes. Is like, well, the house got torn down. I guess I just roam the streets saying my name. And then her mom is like, there's room here. She's like, Evelyn. She's like, mama forever. Right. How great would it be if Evelyn upright was still alive and read this story? And she's like, I live in Poughkeepsie. And I didn't die. I just retired. And you don't kill a person when you tear down their house. What the fuck's wrong with you people? She died when we tore her house down. What if every time you tore down someone's house, they died? So we're going to be tearing your house down. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Come on. Don't do this to us. I love my family. I'm sorry. Put them all up. No! Every time. Every time. It would really change the construction business. Oh, fuck. How'd she die? They tore her house down. In the attic, they did more recordings. And as the machine pumped smoke through a maze of laser lights. Sounds like a good little scene there. Sounds like a Pink Floyd show. They heard whistles and someone yelling bicycle hat. Someone yelling, I'm sorry? Oh, that's a rave. I'm sorry. I'm thinking of someone else. The team called out to Evelyn Eprite. So they're pumping smoke into the attic and they've got laser lights going and they're all going, Evelyn Eprite. Evelyn Eprite. I mean, adults are doing this. See that see. She is the dancing queen. Evelyn just comes out as like dancing. Yeah, Evelyn Eprite. As well as calling out to the suspect suspected children, asking them if they wanted to play and if they liked ice cream. I mean, the kids like the shoes. Assholes. Just be like, look at all these arranged shoes. These guys are experts. Ice cream. Hey, how do you contact today? You guys like ice cream? So what do dead children like? They also like ice cream. Really? Yep. And the wiggles. Do you get kids? Do you want to play? Why do you turn off the fucking smoke and the lasers? Because I'm terrified and I'm a ghost. Hey guys, what's not inviting about a bunch of people saying Evelyn with lasers and smoke? Come on. Hang out with us. We got ice cream for your ghost kids. In the basement Saturday night. The owners. And by the way, of course it's Saturday night. I love how they're going to the basement in the attic. Didn't the people die in the fucking regular rooms? Why are they like, hey, hey, I've seen movies. They either float up or down. You know how they are. They experience gravity dramatically. Shannon, the hotel owner's wife, reluctantly agreed. By now, ex-wife by now. Reluctantly agreed to participate in the third and latest investigation because the spirits seem drawn to her. That's interesting. They always, hard to get. Ghost go for that shit. She said she saw someone poke. She said she suddenly saw someone poke their head out from behind McCaffrey as he and her husband stood next to each other videotaping the ghost hunter with a thermal imaging camera. Okay. Okay. So honey, did you just poke your head out behind Rob? She said, uh, no, replied her husband. Shannon then bolted up the basement stairs in fright. I think it's safe to say this place is definitely haunted, but by who or what we don't know, McCaffrey said, we're going to compile all our evidence over the next couple of weeks and see what we can find out. Well, I think I know what they found out. So I went to PDG's Facebook page and as you can see at the top here, it says, thanks to all who have liked our page. Continue to show support. Expect big things from us in the very near future. All right. Thanks. Yeah. 279 like big, big movement, big movement. As you scroll down, I get to this post paranormal diagnostic group would like to make a comment regarding our recent publicity. After the article, we have been inundated with press and interview opportunities. We would just like to take a second to set the record straight in no shape or form. Did we mean to disparage ghost hunters or any other group of a higher status? We were simply excited about the material collected at our investigation and perhaps do it our inexperience. Our words were poorly chosen, so they have now ghost hunters are mad at them because they're not ghost hunting. Right? The whole thing is collapsing in on itself. Hey, your bullshit wasn't done by protocol, man. We have a very specific handbook on how to be full of shit. You guys are all over the map, putting lasers up there. You put lasers in attics, not in basements, dumbass. So then I started just Googling ghost hunters because it's fucking insane, right? It's insane. Hunting is a really crazy term for it too. If the ghosts knew about what we were calling these shows, they'd be like, run. They're ghost hunters. I found a woman named Gina Lanier. Okay. She has been selected by the Haunted America Tours as one of the lead investigators for the Ghost Hunters of America. So the ultimate bullshit title. I have no idea what that means. Wait, what is it again? The Haunted America Tours. She is one of the lead investigators for the Ghost Hunters of America. It's all... Ghost Hunters of America. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. You know, we're all full of shit in this room, but I think one of us is just full of a little bit more shit. A big round of applause. Gina! Gina, get up here! Okay, so of course I look at her site. Oh boy. And she has a paragraph about paranormal tickling fetishism. Oh my god. Shut the fuck up. Let me guess, these ghosts run a weird ring too? Only hairless Asian ghosts. Tickling fetishism is a paraphalia... Paraphalia? I don't know what that means. In which participants derive sexual stimulation from tickling or being tickled by another person. When it comes from unseen hands, then it can be frightening on all levels. The next Megalia is the experience of sexual gratification from the act of tickling. Right? So that term applies to last week's show. Erotic tickling may involve physical restraint of a submissive by a dominant, although some consider it BDSM activity. It's not recognized by the ghost hunting community. Wait. So ghost tickling is not recognized by the ghost hunting community? No, it does seem not to be. You would think that they would all just be happy to be talking about the same kind of horse shit. Not even horse shit. There's gotta be rules. It's rules. I believe in ghosts, but I believe they do not tickle. A former client of Mickey of Miami, Mickey of Miami is another ghost hunter, told Gina how each day a ghost would pin her down and tickle her for over an hour each day until exhausted, she would fall asleep, causing her to be late for work and important dates and meetings. Well, we need to stop for a second. So we are saying for sure there was a time when she was late for something. And she gave it maybe more than once. Yeah. Gina, where the hell have you been? I'm so sorry. I was, I had to take the longest nap because this ghost tickled me for an hour. I was exhausted, but I'm caught up in everything. Okay. I just, yeah, just go to your desk. Okay, thanks. I'm sorry. God, I just wish they didn't love to tickle me into naps. Right before work, no less. We're not talking 9pm. 7am they start. I'm like brushing my hair. After Ghost Hunters on Syfy, Worst Liars. I mean, seriously, I was tickled for an hour and then I slept on the floor. So things are good. My freezer is full of lean cuisines. Why? I mean, a man. Mickey advised her that the next time she thought it would happen, tell the ghost that she had a safe word. Oh my God. I keep saying Buick and you keep tickling me. Cabbage, stop already. Cabbage. Enough. I have a job to do. Quite frankly, my boss is starting to think I'm a little cuckoo. She did. And now the ghost stops when she uses it. It was unbearable at times. All I could do was lay on the floor and laugh out loud, she told Mickey. He used to do it to me when company would come over. Holy shit. Did you? No. Hey, Julie, what are you doing? It's a ghost. Oh my God. How long are you going to do this? An hour. Buick. Buick. Oh, thank God. Anyway, everyone liking the empanadas? Sorry. That's Neil. He's a nickel ghost. And he just really doesn't respect anything when I have plans. He doesn't respect me. Half the time he won't even listen to my safe word. He really won't. Boy, am I glad he learned about Buick. Anyway, who's this guy you were saying you're going to set me up with? Many paranormal investigators from around the world have intense sexual encounters. Yeah, ghost fucking. With many ghosts, demons, and entities. Or so they tell me, this is Gina, in the strictest of confidence. I often wondered, is that why many keep investigation at the same location over and over? Wait. You know what? I'm going to go back into that barn. I'll be in there for a couple hours investigating ghosts again. We completely investigated in there, Trey. I'm just going to get in there one more time. We got all the samples we need from there. I'm just going to get in there one more time. I'm going to take this lube. Why do you keep taking the lube when you go to investigate that barn? I just grease down a ghost and get it ready. For what? I'm scared. Are you fucking the ghosts? I'm going to head over to the barn. All right. Just fucking. So she is insinuating that ghost hunters return to the same ghost place to fuck ghosts. If you read this article and your person has had ghost hunters there like nine times, you're like, well, I just don't even know what to believe anymore. I mean, are they helping or are they just ghost fucking? Ghosts often like to masturbate people in public or cemeteries. So I've been told by a psychic paranormal investigator from Florida, aka a dog, aka the last person he said was Florida Mickey. Mickey from Miami. Who tells that this occurs to him twice daily. Yeah. I don't even have time for a woman because I get ghost jacked twice a day. You know what I do? You know. Oh, OK. I'm at the cemetery and have my dick out. It's not. I'm not doing shit. Oh, I'm crazy. There's a ghost jerking me off, sir. Mickey from Miami. Google it. He told me how a ghost actually performed fellatio on him at a funeral while he was fully dressed. Yeah. One time a ghost sucked my dick while I had all my clothes on at a funeral. Where are you guys from? One time he told me. Oh, good. It's so good. I know Mickey. It's hard. I know it's hard. We all miss him. Oh, I know it's tough. Well, OK, language, language, language, language. Easy on the teeth, buddy. Whoa. Larry. Just saying goodbye. Just miss him so much. And a ghost sucked my dick with all my clothes on. They can do that. They can do that. Clothes don't mean anything. OK, so this happened in Washington just outside Tacoma. This is the police blotter. At 336 p.m. on April 12th, a woman contacted the Federal Way police to report that a person was cutting a large tree down. She was concerned it would fall over on our car or in a house located on 22nd Avenue South. At 10 a.m. April 11th, an unknown person cut the vinyl top of a woman's car on 8th Avenue Southwest and gained access to the vehicle. All belongings inside the car had been gone and the total damage for the vehicle was about 1200. At 4 o' 2 on April 10th, two women went to the Federal Way police station claiming that over the past two years, a paranormal person had been placing sensors on their bodies and visiting them at their house on the 2025 South Place. They said that the ghost has been having sexual intercourse with them. And one woman said that these incidents started in Kent and continued when she moved here. The other woman said that this has just started with her now. Okay ma'am. And you're now you're getting you're getting fucked too. I just recently started to get fucked by them. Yes. Okay. So how would you like me to we don't actually I'm not sure this is a violation of any kind. Take some samples. I don't samples of he finished inside. Okay ma'am. We actually don't have a ghost rape kit. Well you should have one. My sister over here has been getting raped since Kent. So it is rape too right. Is it rape? Are they enjoying it? Okay now. Okay. They went to the police. Okay now here's where we get into the recent the recent celebrity. This is another reason I went into these stories. Finally they're starting to fuck the ghosts. They're starting to fuck A-listers. Okay. Finally. By the way if I have a guess Travolta is the first to get ghostfucked. Yes. So Natasha Blasek of paranormal activity to made a confession on the British TV show this morning this week. The first experience happened when she was alone in her room. I was laying in bed and then I felt something enter the room and I couldn't see anybody. I could feel that somebody was touching me and the hands were pushing me against my will and I could feel the weight of the body on top of me. I couldn't see anybody but I felt the pressure the energy the warmth pushing in different directions. I enjoyed it. She said that she found the experience really really pleasurable. The ghost then left. But Blasek said. So I got to get up early tomorrow. Otherwise I'd hang around I just. You know I mean I like you. I just I just need I got to work early. You're great. No you're I had a good time. You're great. I just had street cleaning so I have to move my car and it's at my place. So. But yeah for sure. I got my number I got yours. Yeah well don't really connect. Text me or whatever. I really like you. Ghost text me. The ghost then left. But Blasek said it returned a month later for more. Hey girl. Remember me. She's married. Oh cool. So her husband's like yeah I don't know what I think. Hey honey you remember when I fucked you and you were kind of asleep. That's me. You mean when the orb got inside of me and I felt this pressure and its energy. No no no no you were just like remember you you had a Valium and a glass of wine and you were really out of it. I fucked you. Maybe you just kept saying this paranormal activity to the best it gets. She said her ghost sex antics have given her something more than a traditional nookie ever could. It's more satisfying. Oh cool. Again. It was fun. I think ever since I was a child I always wanted to know if there was anything more to this world. Now I know there is and they just fuck you. It gave me support and comfort and love and it did answer questions for me that there is something else out there. Alexander Holzer a ghost researcher. Cool guy. I got a degree in ghost research. I'm sorry what school did you go to? Online online college. Oh it's just called online college? It's called online college. I know I know how to clean rifles and I'm a ghost researcher and a part time mechanic and a florist. Ghost research. She says the people who experience ghost sex don't feel warmth of the kind that Blasic alleges the people who report lying. People report having sex with a ghost report feeling pressure on them and even penetration but ghosts don't have warmth. Wait they have dicks but not warmth. When they're in the room it's a very cold environment. Look there are fake rules. There are fake rules. And you have to stay by the fake rules and the fake rules say that ghosts have cold cocks. Not hot cock. Look people are talking about penetration but the idea of a ghost being warm. What is she crazy? They just have dicks. Anyway I research ghosts. Ok you know about Keisha? What do you mean? Oh Kesha? Musician? Yeah. Air quoting musician? Yeah Kesha. A couple years ago she told Ryan Seacrest and Cone O'Brien that well she said to Cone O'Brien I did go to the bone zone with a ghost. So that's traditional. That's like someone the traditional language of someone who has had a horrifying experience. Well that's how you know you're dealing with someone who is really in touch with their spiritual side. I went to the bone zone with a ghost. Alright well if that experience was real it's now totally soiled and ruined. When pressed for details she admitted that she didn't know who the mystery man was under the sheets. I don't know his name but he was in my house. It was a sexy time. It wasn't like sex. The experience she said was the inspiration behind the song Supernatural on her new album. So it's a song so it led to art. Every time I heard that song I was like this is about something bigger. Now I know that it was. The theme of the record is magic. I went on a spiritual journey by myself. No security guard, no managers. I went around the world and lived on a boat and got fucked by a ghost. Well Sanchez based ghost hunter Janie Hartman won't dismiss Keisha's claims. I was on Three's Company. I dated Larry. I did two seasons of Becker and then I got into ghosts. That's kind of my trajectory. So Janie Hartman won't dismiss Keisha's claims as strictly for publicity but said the erotic operation encounters are actually rare. Connections between ghosts and humans are more likely to be emotional like the woman I met who could actually feel the spirit of her dead husband spooning her in bed and even smell this cologne. So that's more real. Well I think what she's saying I do get behind is that if a ghost is going to fuck someone it's not going to fuck Keisha. Right yeah. I think what has happened here is a man the story behind this that we maybe will never be reporting is that a man has figured out how to make himself invisible. Okay well that brings us to Anna Nicole Smith. Of course it does. Anna Nicole Smith claims she used to have sex with a ghost. Yeah she took all his money right? The busty models revealed she had supernatural encounters several years ago after mistakenly believing it was her boyfriend making love to her. She revealed to FHM magazine a ghost would crawl up on my leg and have sex with me at an apartment a long time ago in Texas. I used to think it was my boyfriend then one day I woke up and I found it wasn't. So she was like someone was on top of her. The guy was like oh oh. She's like yeah Barney. I'm a ghost. Boo boo boo. Oh shit let me shake this chain real quick. Sorry I got it all over your leg. I love that he climbed up on her leg. How big is her fucking leg? Well also she says that eventually she woke up so she was just getting ghost fucked or perhaps raped for a long time and then finally she's like fine I'll wake up. She was scared at first but soon realized she had nothing to fear because the ghost was giving her amazing sex. This is great. I ain't going to ask questions. I'd fuck a skeleton if it made me cum. We must see you again ghost man. She's eating Twinkies with four dogs on her bed. I was freaked out about it but then I was like well you know what he's never hurt me and he just gave me some amazing sex so I have no problem. So she's smart. Yes. So we miss her still. Okay so now there's a fourth actress. Jesus Christ. This one I don't know who she is but Paz de la Horta she is on Boardwalk Empire. She insists the ghost of Elvis got her off. I was with my ex-boyfriend Scott Weiland. Now I feel like. Red flags. Why'd you break up with him I wonder. I don't know where we were or how long we'd been there. And had to beg me. Had to beg him to go to Graceland. I felt like he was jealous of Elvis because I've always been infatuated by him which is hysterical because he's passed. Which is hysterical because he's passed away. You're jealous of a dead guy. You're also on heroin. So I went to his recording studio because sometimes the sensitive people feel him in this room. Sure. And I stood in the corner and I felt him. What can I say I felt him touch me. I mean come on he's a ghost. I felt his spirit go through me and give me pleasure. I experienced that when my cat died. I'm sorry. Did I mention my cat ghost fingers me. She waited until I got home from Sundance and she passed away the second she was in my arms and I felt her spirit go through my body. But this this was different. It was like Elvis was tickling me with a feather. Or a penis. OK. Actions shouldn't be allowed outside. Most of them should not be. So then I was like OK. Are a lot of people fucking ghosts. Like is this like a thing. Is there a lot of ghost fucking going on. So I started getting ready for hashtag. I started Googling ghost sex. Africa also has a sex ghost situation. Oh good good. I was just going to say they need something else. This happened in 2001. Fear struck the residents of Zanzibar Islands after rumors of the reemergence of a sexually voracious ghost that attacks people. The ghost fuck on his back. The ghost fuck on his back. It's almost as if it is. Many Zanzibars are now refusing to sleep in their houses as they believe it only preys on people in the comfort of their own beds. Don't sleep on your bed. You'll get fucked by the ghost. We're not sleeping in our beds any longer because that's where the ghost fuck us. The ghost or genie goes by the name of Papa Bawa. Hello Papa Bawa here to fuck you. Oh no. Papa Bawa is here to fuck. Don't sleep in your bed. Papa Bawa is here to fuck. I'm here to fuck. People believe that it sodomizes its victims, most of whom are men. Oh Jesus. Who started? Who was like I got a tattoo but I got fucked by a ghost in the ass last night. In recent years the residents of the semi-autonomous Tanzanian islands claim that Papa Bawa only visited the islands during voting such as during the general election in 1995 and 2000. Something about election season make Papa Bawa horny. Papa Bawa see ballots he want to fuck men. Oh I love primaries. Oh man primary season what the fuck. You like voting I like fucking. I vote to fuck you it passed. But to the surprise of everybody. To the surprise of many this current ghost has reappeared when there is no polling of any kind. Hey Papa Bawa what. I found out I could do it all the time. I bought property. Papa Bawa. In the latest panic he is said to be striking in the north of Zanzibar island as well as central Pembroke. I like how much like a predator he's just in an area like he's walking. He's a ghost. It's a space. He's like oh where's that cab. People claim his presence in a house is revealed by an ekkard smell and a puff of smoke. What's that? Oh my ass. Get out of your beds. You're a fucking victim. Then speak of being in a trance or dreamlike state as they are molested. And so the story goes that they did not reveal what happened then Papa Bawa will strike the next night. So they have to. So it's such a fucked up thing. They get fucked in the ass by a ghost and then they have to go outside and go I was fucked in the ass by a ghost. Otherwise they're going to get fucked again. And then Papa Bawa goes you are free from my ass fucking. So I am led to believe you didn't go tell everyone you were got ghost fucked last night. Papa Bawa please I was inside all day. You know what that means. Time to pay Papa Bawa again. No Papa Bawa no. Tell them tomorrow. Let them know I'll be around this whole area for about a week. Then I'm going to move to a little more western part of the country. It's like a tour. I'm going to need gasoline. My booking agent is like what the fuck you know what I mean. And in some of these places where I'm fucking I'm like I should be fucking in theaters. Why am I fucking in such small towns. You know what I mean I mean I like it. The people are like me but. People know me now. They know they all know Papa Bawa comes so how come I'm not fucking. Listen they tell me stop fucking just during election season. I do and I'm still playing these little lots. Everyone in town know they're not sleeping in their beds. How do I fuck a man not in his bed. What accent was that? Look at that much Italian. His face Papa Bawa he's an entity. Hey I'm a Papa Bawa you like me Bawa? He's a me it's Papa Bawa I'm a here to fuck you. You like that? Hey Mario you like a fucking. Get out of that bed you little stinker. I'm going to fuck you so hard. Up your ass unless you tell somebody tomorrow. And Papa Bawa are you. You coming to Papa Bawa pizza. You stay for pizza you leave if I fuck you and tell everyone Papa Bawa pizza. Now two locations. Zanzibar and Pamba. North Island and Pamba location. You get pepperoni I fuck you in your asshole. You get pepperoni I give you pepperoni. Papa Bawa style. Okay so funny enough now we're going to go to Italy. Oh great. Paul Gundanaras has a PhD in history and in Sicily they they used to they buried people they made a lot of mummies. Like underneath the churches and stuff there's all these like mummified priests just like and the pictures are crazy they're just like standing on walls and oh Jesus. So his family is Greek and they lived in Alexandria back when it was a Greek town. I don't know what. No man you know what I don't need a history lesson. No yeah I'm about to tell this guy to fuck himself. At that point there was a trade in mummy dust. No okay. Which they called Mumia which was thought to be a cure all. Louis the 14th actually used to carry mummy in a pouch and snort bits of it. Oh god you want to hit a dude. Sun King please Sun King please relax. You want a little dry dude. Take a little hit. Take a little. I told you I'm stop. I'm not doing it. I'll do one bump. Oh my god. Let me put a little my gums. Let me put a little mummy on the gums. Wow that tastes like Jim. The problem was that by the late 19th century they didn't have a bunch of old Egyptian mummies to dig up and use anymore. Hey we should have been putting dudes back in here. Yeah. We're all out of mummy. No they were just hanging out at the dealer's place. It's like yeah my guy says like he's totally dry right now. What are you talking about? Why did I have to hang out here all day? I'm waiting for a shipment to come in. I don't know man I just like you know hang out. He said it's really good mummy shit like this is real. It's like Colombian mummy. So they didn't have enough anymore and then people were actually taking bodies and taking them out to the middle of the Sahara and covering them in tar to make them dry out. Jesus Christ. Just for a bump man. Just for a fucking sweet bump. That is fucking insane. What did I do? This isn't a vacation at all. Get under the tarp old man. I'll snort you in a year and a half now. They'd come back a year later dig them up and sell them to apothecaries where they'd get ground up. It was a big trade. Okay so now there are terms for ghosts that fuck. Succubus and incubus which are evil spirits that have sex with people while they're sleeping. And then the other term is sex ghosts. I like that one the best. So are they the same thing? I think there's kind of a continuum between succubi and sex ghosts. That's my turn by the way. I'm sorry. Sex ghost is mine. Yeah. I think there's a lot of parallels. Also I invented sex ghosts. So in Sicily life in general is so involved with sex and death that to them they're just ghosts. Okay. They just think that of course ghosts go out and have sex. Of course. It's a weird sexualized environment but all history stories of ghosts in Sicily involve fucking. Okay. One of the more outlandish stories is about a guy called Pene Grande. Wow. You see where this is going? I mean I almost want to translate. It means big dick. Yeah. Okay. I was going to say. It sounds like he means fucking huge cock. He was a mummy famed in life for having a big penis. People would go down. So this is called the Palermo Catacombs is where all the mummies are. Sure. People would go down to Palermo Catacombs and treat him as the patron saint of big cocks. I don't know how you treat him that way. Hey look at you. Is that thing getting bigger or is it just me? Hey I thought you were dead but you grown. Get out of here. Look at the cock on this ghost. Finally a newlywed woman came to see him because she was married to a guy who was not well endowed. She took a cloth and rubbed it on the mummy's dick. As you would. Normal decision. Hey hon where are you going? And then rubbed it on her husband's dick. The next time she had sex with her husband his penis seemed larger and fuller and she was about to orgasm except that at that moment she looked up and saw it was actually the ghost on top of her. Everyone thought she was crazy. Why? Give me one reason why they thought she was crazy. Is it because she used the mummified rag on her husband's cock? Because that's not crazy. But then it happened again the next time she had sex and they had to set up an exorcism for the ghost. They had a blacksmith make a tight fitting sheath made of metal and once the husband got erect the ghost came out and got caught in the codpiece. Everything is true. And then they threw holy water at him. That expelled the ghost from the guy's body so forever he had a small penis but he was free of the ghost. As for the ghost he gained a great following among older ladies and eventually so many were coming to see him that they had to lock the mummy in a back room. Which is where he remains today. Come on let me in. Now you'll just go fucking everyone again. Well I'll tell you who gets the short end of the stick is the man with the small penis. Yeah he got fucked. He's still just referred to as he just now still has a small dick. I mean she put a fucking ghost in him. Yeah got rid of it and she's like your dick still small. He's like no you know what. No this is dick small but now everybody knows. Yeah everyone's like oh she did. This is the guy I was telling you about. He got the mummy rag on his small dick. How you doing Bob? Not good. No I've had better times. I've had better weeks. You guys want to talk about something else? Yeah. So what was it like when that ghost fucked your wife so good. I don't want to talk about that. All right anyway. I want to talk about that. In Palermo there was a well where they would throw the heads of executed criminals and these heads had groupies. Women would come to talk to the spirits of the criminals and ask them for favors. This continued through the 20th century and only stopped when the city put up a grate. That's my favorite story ever. That's my favorite story ever. I mean I know that we are stupid. We are like a stupid culture. We're like you know we're far underachieving. People are really dumb. Can you imagine going to a well with heads in it and like so much so that they're like we're putting up a goddamn gate. Enough. Enough. Enough. Council seeking. Jesus Christ we quit putting heads in here. You know what. Look I've called this town meeting because the sewers are clogged up again with the fucking heads. Quit putting heads in the sewer. Jesus Christ they don't do anything. They're not magic heads. We're putting up a grate. What. No. Aye yi yi. So ghosts in Italy are fucked up. They're crazy. Like our ghosts are like banging people and tickling. They're banging Kesha. They're like really star fuckers. Our ghosts. And their ghosts are fucking crazy. They had to lock a big the biggest penis ghost into a ghost jail. Yeah. So. These are easy to disbelieve especially since I'm generally dealing with oral traditions. Now oral usually an oral story is spot on. Yes. Normally these are the stories that are real. Right. Yeah for sure. And they these sound real. Well I she says these are hard to believe. I don't know which part because I believe them all. Yeah. I actually have a friend from Sicily and one of these sex ghosts turned out to be her great uncle. Oh that. See that I'm not OK with. Isn't that a bummer. That I'm not OK. Uncle Louie. Oh no no. You've matured into a lovely young lady. Wow. I'm not. I'm not your uncle anymore. No. My name is. Fooey. Uncle Fooey. Pa Pa Pa. Pa Pa Pa Pa Pa. That was a ghost who was accused of stealing women's underpants. So it's real. Yeah. So obviously it's. Or at least it's real whether this ghost stole women's underpants or not. They kept finding women's panties behind a particular mummy. They would get stashed there like trophies. Finally a girl called the police and said she'd been having visions of a ghost entering a home. He would proposition her and when she turned down he'd steal her panties. Hey. No. How are you. I'm fine but I told you no. Let's. What do you say we take off your pants and get a little bit in there. No I don't. Ghost fuck. Just the tip. No. That's what it leads to with ghosts. What's that on the floor over there. Oh. Panties. No. Hey. The monastery accused the girl of planting the underwear there herself. What. But then they had set up a test. All right. All right. We'll get to the bottom of this. Hey get get a Clumbo in here. Just one more thing. I've been putting the panties behind. Here's what we're going to do. Punch and sure enough another pair of undies still appeared behind the mummy. What was the test. They just watched her. I think they watched the mummy. Well it sounds like they did their homework. Someone went to the mummy and told them they would bury him in the ground unless he stopped stealing underpants. You listen here mummy. You're going right in that ground unless you stop this panty thieving. That's right. He seems like he's upset. Then after that no one's underpants disappeared. Well I don't want to go into the ground. I can't be a ghost if I'm buried in the ground. Boy he's always pooping on the party. He's trying to take some panties. Can I take the panties I already have? One a week. Boom. Aw man. Aw man. People feel so sour. I had a reputation as the panty ghost. Don't want to go in the ground. Stupid church make me go in the ground. Make you go in the ground. Stupid church. Good for nothing. Okay you ready for this one? Oh yeah. There's a really bizarre story. No no no I've heard that one. You're on the same page I think. About a guy who had a severe diarrhea and chronic flatulence. He stole a skull and started saying prayers to Saint Rock and Saint Sebastian the patron saints of plague and suffering and also shitting on the skull daily. Wait. Okay. Wait. He had diarrhea and chronic flatulence so he can't stop shitting and farting. Not even shitting it's just like pee out of his poo hole. So he stole a skull from skull town and started saying prayers to the saints of the plagues and the sufferings and shitting on the skull every day. This is A plus B equals F. These are obvious things you do. Of course you're going to shit on the skull you bought. He had a theory that by crapping on the skull he could switch intestines with the body the skull had been attached to. Well that's an easy thing to figure. I say just assume that. My doctor said the same thing. Just assume it. My urologist as me peeing on a skull. He's really good. Side effects of peeing on a skull may include. Blindness. More flatulence. Not switching intestines with the ghost. The ghost kept warning him quit shitting on my skull. Hey you dickhead. You quit your skull shitting on me pal. Hey hey bro one more time. One more time. One more time I see that asshole open up over my fucking skull. Hey shits going to go really god damn bad. If you're that skull wherever he got the skull you're like there were so many skulls. Why did I have to be. He could have just picked any skull. Now I'm his toilet skull. Why me? Why me I say every time he shits on my head. He just assumed he'd switch intestines with the man. But I love that the ghost is just like where's the ghost telling us. They having a conversation. If the skull is just like alright. Okay alright enough. You've made your point. Hey Luigi sit down. You've made your point Luigi. Enough. Okay it's not happening. Look you ain't switching intestines with me dummy. Just quit shitting on me. You know I just shit on my neighbors car because I assumed it would be my car. What's so crazy about that. But he kept at it and succeeded. Yeah nobody likes a quitter. And succeeded in transferring his intestinal problems to the ghost. Bam. Now the ghost is shitting. Easy to prove that that ghost has diarrhea. And that's where PNPDG comes back. Oh good. We saw shit orbs. We are actually shit orbs. We're PDG. We're shit orbs. The problem was that the ghost had died of testicular cancer and in return he gave it to that guy. And that's how the guy died. One of the dangers of necromancy is you don't really know who's on the other side or what they're going to give you in return. One of the dangers. Moral of the story. Don't dig up a skull and shit on it with diarrhea. You want to get. No that's not the moral of the story. Oh it isn't? No the moral of the story is if you're going to skull shit get the bill of health of the skull that you took. You want a healthy. You want a fucking. You know you want like Jack LaLanne. That's what you want. Shit on that. Shit on Jack LaLanne's skull. You'll be drinking fucking juices until you're 91. Unfortunately I shit on a skull with a lot of bankruptcy issues. So my credit is screwed. Would you have. Then they asked this guy if he would have. If he would want to have an experience with a sex ghost. It depends on the ghost. That's his answer. Now wait. Would you. Would you. If you could have ghost sex. Say the wife says it's OK because whatever it is. Is it cheating though. I mean. No no. One time. Just it's to me. I would prefer if it was hot. I don't like a cold pussy. Well it's not a pussy it's a dick. But if you if you could have like the light whatever the version of it where the good version. Yeah the good version. The Kesha version. Yeah the Kesha Kesha's version. Why is it looks like Kesha. Why is it. She's a disaster. She puts a dollar bill in her name. She's a fucking moron. Moron. I don't know. Is it because you because of your wife. Well if she said she'd have to say yes she'd have to say you can say she says yes. She said you have to. So let's. She says yes. She gives me the protection which is a rubber. Well it's a codpiece or whatever. It's a metal codpiece. And it's a skull that's been. I put the skull that's been shit on my asshole. I put the codpiece on my dick. I'm starting to think she might say no. Yes to the premise no to the specifics. And I wouldn't get hurt. No it's just you get you get a ghost fuck. You get the experience. The ghost doesn't come back and re fuck you all the time until you tell your friends. So it's not Papua. It's not Papua. From what I can tell is kind of the prick of the ghost fucking. You tell everyone. Worst ghost ever. Yeah. It's not worse. Papa Bauer fuck you. You let the world know. She says Papa Bauer. Call the BBC. You let them know who that ass belong to is Papa Bauer. I want to see your peers Morgan. Tell me you fucking love me bitch. Papa Bauer no. Say my fucking name. OK. Don't want to fuck Papa Bauer. No. Nobody wants to fuck Papa Bauer. Yeah why not. Yeah I'm definitely in. Let's see what it's like. I'm definitely in. One time. Yes. This is a scary thing. We may just open ourselves up to ghost fuck. Oh no. What if we fucking did. This is like might be like one of those Ouija board movies. Now they're just like there's a ghost next to us with a clipboard is like got two more for you. Two more for the club. Oh boy. You should hear this podcast boys. Oh boy. Hey get. Papa Bauer like podcast. Get Papa Bauer. Big fun. Big fun. Big fun. Going to fuck you. Tell everyone. Hey Zanzibar. Papa Bauer going to America. In this in this day and age you just have to tweet it. Papa Bauer fucks me. That's enough. That'll do. How many followers. Yeah that's enough. Twenty nine. OK. Twenty nine. Fine. You tell the people. No Papa Bauer's ass. Papa Bauer's on Twitter. Yeah I'm at Papa Bauer one. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I love you. Papa Bauer come to America. Coming to America. It's the remake is the Greed Reboot. It's completely different. There's a couple differences between our Coming to America and the original. Eddie Murphy is a prince and the original one and the Orcs in McDonald's. But in this one. It's it's going to be Kevin Hart and he's just going to rape people. He's just a ghost. He's a ghost. He's a ghost rapist. And we're thinking about calling it Ghost Rapist. Obviously we're going to go with Ghost Rapist. So do you like the pitch? So you guys in? Again, we see Kevin Hart as Papa Bawa. So. Kevin Hart is Papa Bawa in OOF. I love how this one is great because you had to do. A lot of follow. A lot of research. Yeah, like, well, I just started. I just started like I started. I started out because of the USA. Yeah, it started out because of the case story. The then whatever that new girl is, the paranormal girl said that. And then I and then I found the USA Today story. But that is crazy because I've heard of ghost hunting. I mean, who knew? It's a whole fucked up thing. Yeah, you really might have just opened us up to go straight. Yeah, it's like a Ouija board. You know, people say you use the Ouija board and then you're you get raped by a ghost. I've always heard that. I think we just invited ghost fucking into our life. I mean, you just said we just we just we just. OK. OK. I don't know how I feel. I feel I feel OK. I felt worse. I think that I feel better than I did last week. That was dirtier. Yes. But I feel like people are really stupid. Yeah, it's just that's probably that's probably the branch that keeps growing. Here is that the people are just really looking for something. And I don't know what it is, but they're not finding it. But it's great for us. Oh, fuck.