 Oh, Gareth Reynolds. So I'm here with Gary and so we've done. Okay, so people were pleased with the first couple and they were sort of this American life-ish. Sure. But then I also don't want to get stuck doing one thing because that gets very hard to find content for. Like just finding really interesting story about dudes now is like, I don't have that kind of time. Well, and I mean, we've had you've had some hits. Yeah. Tickling. Tickling. Huge hit. Jesus Christ. By the way, know a guy who did it. Oh my God. This Australian dude, Ash, who is a really funny guy, but also like an extremely ticklish, extremely ticklish, but also like a guy who like to make extra bucks goes to a gay bar and is the whipped cream guy where he sprays whipped cream on his nipples and the guy suck it off for bucks. I know we had that guy, but okay, he does that. And he makes like $100 and goes, okay, I made a thousand. I'm going to go. And he's not like, he's not like on the clock. He just goes down there where he wants to do it. That guy's like, yeah, go ahead. Hey man, yeah, whipped cream wherever, man. So anyway, he, I haven't talked to him, but he apparently was one of the tickle guys. And you can hear about that on, I think the latest I love green guide letters, a podcast out of Australia, which in which he talks about it. Um, so yeah, fucking crazy, right? So then we did, we did the ghost one, which I think was fine. Ghost fucking when it was a little bit outside, yeah. Follow the bow forever is a little outside of the, uh, idea of like a this American life. So now I want to try, cause we're on your trial. Kind of stuff. Sure. History. Okay. All right. Dave, are you excited, bro? Are you excited? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. May 14th is the next live virtual dollop. Uh, we'll be doing another dollop of looped live. It'll be a 6 PM Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual dollop. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of like, uh, media in them, videos and pictures. David does a very great job and, um, they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade. Arby's we've got the meats. No, no, no. Wrong copy. Dave, wrong copy. This is for the, uh, yeah, just stick to what we're doing. So on May 14th looped live 6 PM Pacific time. Join us again for another live virtual dollop. We've got the meats. So I was like, okay, so who is the biggest bad ass in American history? Papa Bauer. He's not American. He's from Zanzibar, man. Right. Um, the biggest bad ass in American history. Yeah. And I texted you the name. Yeah. Well, you said not look it up. What? This is, this is a fucking hilarious. I tried to forget it. This is a hilarious text exchange because the, cause it was totally like, I was like, I thought I always assume that you've read my tweets in which I tweeted. We're going to try history next week. So I, I, I'm on my own notifications only day. That's my home. We're texting way too much now. Sorry. Um, so I texted you, have you ever heard of a Hugh Glass? And I haven't. And you said, no, I don't know who that is. But you were like talking in the present tense. You said, I don't think I know him. Yeah. He sounds cool. He sounds great. And I was like, and I said, no, I said, no, well, you shouldn't cause he's been dead for 150 years. And then you said that may be part of it. That's why I haven't met him. That makes sense. Hugh Glass. Is the biggest bad ass in American history? Well, okay. I'm going to tell you the story. Otherwise I'd say Billy the kid. No, I think this guy's much, much, much more of a bad ass than the bad assist. The baddest assiest. So he was born in 1783 in Philadelphia. So already starting out rough, Irish immigrant parents. Okay. So up and tumble behind the eight ball. He's a fighter. Shocking. He's a scrapper. So he started, he decided he wanted to work on ships. Okay. Be a seaman. Easy. And that, that went on for a few years. And then he was captured by pirates. Okay. All right. Bullshit. A French pirate, Jean Lafitte. I didn't know as I got into this, cause this is going to become about mountain men. I didn't realize just how much shit the fucking French were up in our business. No, I don't think. They were all up in our shit. They gave us the Statue of Liberty and then they just, they just, we don't need it. Nope. And they used it as a reason to fuck us. Is that what happened? Yeah. You've learned a little bit about the French today. So he had to be a pirate. He was forced to be a pirate. They pirate raped him? They were like, you must be. I think it's called Shanghai. He was Shanghai for two years where he, we had to go on pirate raids. No, we think you'll be a pirate instead. You look like a pirate. You'll be a pirate though. So you know, that's just, that's just classic shit that happens to dudes in their mid thirties. Yeah. They just go on, they become a seaman and then they get forced into pirate life. And so if you tried to, if you were like, Hey, I'm, I'm kind of tired of being a pirate. I'm going to give you guys my two weeks thinking of maybe not pirated with you anymore. They would be like, okay, cool. We're going to kill you. Oh, I'll hang around. So he couldn't give us two weeks. Couldn't be like, Hey, you guys. I actually got hired to manage a better pirate ship. I feel weird about stealing boats. Keep in mind, I didn't want to do this. You guys recruited me. All we had in common was we were on water. I had to kill a guy. Remember you made me. So he escaped by jumping off the boat and swimming two miles to shore, which is pretty fucking impressive. That's far already assigned that this guy like other dudes would be like, you know what? I'm going to stay a pirate. Yeah. I would definitely be like, okay, for me. Totally. I'd be like, pass me that rum. So he swam ashore in Texas. And then once you get to Texas, you're in trouble because there's going to be a lot of American Indian, different tribes in the story. I'm just going to start calling them Indians. I'm not going to say American Indian every time because come on, I get tired. Sure. Well, I mean, you've been through more than any. So the Karen Kawa Indians were there on the shore and they were always looking to kill pirates because whatever reason they hated pirates. And right there is a movie. Nobody's ever talked about the great pirate Indian battles. Nobody plays pirates and Indians. It's great that he's just like, I just really, really fucking hate pirates. So we'll just kill them all. So he had to be able to make his way without any maps or supplies or weapons through the whole that Karen Kawa Indian territory. He's with another dude. They make it through there. They get up to Kansas, right? Not even going for a while. They're on a fucking trek and they get captured by Pawnee Indians. Jesus Christ. Yeah. It's not this the Skiddy tribe. So they're not down with white dudes. So they take his buddy and they hang him upside down and then they start. They put hundreds of pine slivers into his skin. Oh my God. Just everywhere. And then they light him on fire. And Hugh. I know how I don't want to go. I so don't want to do that. So what am I up to? So he has one thing in his pocket and when they come over, so he's next. When they come over to him, he goes, hold on a second fellas. And he whips out a packet of Vermillion. Do you know what Vermillion is? I didn't either. I had to look it up. I thought it was like noodles. That's funny to me even though it might be. I'm assuming these are noodles. Have you Indians ever seen noodles? Ramen? Shrimp ramen? It's actually a really intense dye that is red and has been used since Roman times and it can be used for war paint or anything. It's like this great powdered dye. That's a powdery dye. You would love it. I'm way into it. And so the chief was like, hey, this is awesome. Do you want to live with us? First of all, would have been a great time to do that when his buddy was getting stuffed with pine needles. He didn't think of it that way. When he was watching you get stuffed with pine needles. They don't do that in 30 seconds. If they were stuffing other with pine needles, you would be like, I should keep quiet because if I say anything, they might be stuffing me with pine needles. Yeah, but I'd be like, we're moments away. They'll just let a hank on fire. Not if they're well after they set him on fire, then you know that it's a fucked up situation. But when they're sticking pine needles in, you could be like, I might be like, get out of this. You like that? Is that cool? Does that feel good? But I wouldn't even say anything. I'd be like, if I don't say anything, they might forget I'm here. Just scooting behind a tree. We know you're here, Dave. They're so interested in putting pine needles on Larry that they might forget about me. Larry's eye contact as you're leaving is not happy. It's like, you motherfucker. It's like, sorry, buddy. You drew the short straw. So they liked his red paint as vermilion enough. It's so rare and it's so great that they were like, okay, this guy is worth it. But this used to happen. They used to bring in, they used to sort of let dudes into their tribes all the time. You know, kids back in this time, when their parents would take off for whatever reason to go on a fucking run for, I don't know, corn. All right, I'm going to go on a corn jog. And the kids would often take off and live with the Indians. And then when the parents came back and were like, hey, we're back, the kids would be like, fuck that. Really? Yeah. It happened all the time where kids would be like, Indians are great. No rules. You're going on corn. I can stay up as late as I want. No one turns off my iPad. I'm stuffing people with pine needles. What happened at time? What happened at time? So he lives with them for a while, for a couple of years. Takes a wife, fucks a squad, does the whole thing. He's living large. He's got a teepee mortgage. Probably has his own teepee. Yeah, probably. I mean, yeah, there's a mortgage on it, but it's all good. It's a good, it's a buyer's market. It is a buyer's market. So he, in fighting in battles with them, and in one of the battles, they're fighting a fellow, I think another Pawnee tribe, and he killed a few and he got a Hawkin rifle, which was the rifle of the day. So now that's his rifle. Now he's like, he's like a big man on campus. Now he's got guns. He's got guns. Then the Pawnee, his tribe were invited to St. Louis to meet with the white man to talk about, you know, how can we fuck you really hard? At the fuck you up the ass summit. So he goes to St. Louis and he's like, holy shit, this place is awesome. This guy is just so earnest. All right, anything anyone offers. He just yes ands. He's like, St. Louis Budweiser, I'm in. So he stays. He stays in St. Louis. So he leaves. He leaves the tribe. The tribe. He stays in St. Louis and then this is when it mountain men were in their heyday. So in the it's not the 1820s, the mountain men were around from like 1810 to 1880s. And the mountain men were the fucking craziest. Like if there's one thing I like, I can see myself going to war. I can see myself doing a lot of shit. I could never be a fucking mountain man where you're just like, hey, man, I'm just going to go off into the wilderness and I'll come back with 100 beaver pelts. How's that sound, mom? Like to me, it's so fucking insane. Yeah. So and then they were all killing. That was the thing of the day was beavers because beaver hats were super popular in Europe. I can see why. Well, I guess the water would roll off them, right? Yeah. And then apparently you could you could they could they could be shaped really easily because their skin was so tough. So you could shape a hat really easily. These are two features I don't think I knew people were considering that. Well how do you pick a hat? I'm like, I like that design on the front of it. They're like, what's how will the rain come off of it? And is it tough to remold and reshape? OK, I think I might buy this hat. Look, you could turn into a square. Look at that. It's a square hat. Look at me. So before so before the gold rush, it was like a I would call it a beaver rush. So usually to be a man, man, you had to be friendly with one. You had to kind of get grandfathered in. You know, you had to be friendly with one Indian tribe. Oh, OK. So you so that would be the one you could partner up with. And then you'd always then the other ones be trying to kill you. But you at least have one. You have one in your back. I'm safe with these dudes. So they were always multilingual being able to talk to tribes and trade and shit. OK. And a lot of times they live with the Indians and they would take a wife with the Indians. Like it's it's a total like it's not what in our minds. I think the way we were taught when we were kids was that they were like out there fighting all the Indians and getting their beer pelted. But they weren't. They were. It was like this totally complicated world. We were like Indians and roll up. You like, hey, are you guys potty? No, we're the Ricas. Oh, fuck. Shit, shit. Pine needles. So many needles from pine. That would be the fucking worse. The pine needles. Oh, my God. Horrible. It's a horrible way to go. They'll light you on fire. Well, I mean, very effective. Very effective. Very effective. I mean, it's it's it's like being burned by a thousand tiny matches. Oh, my God. So and your buddy has Vermeel the whole time. And the whole time in his pocket. Yeah. So anyway, so I don't think there was any there's ever been anything like Mountain Men since. Yes. I think they're the most badass, craziest. Like there's no job. I mean, they're like they're kind of like a hobo with a purpose. So they they're just living in the mountains, living off the land, just getting beaver pelt. Yeah. And then bringing a man and trading them. That doesn't sound shabby. I'll tell you what, if I could have SportsCenter. The worst thing about them was they they actually said the word varmin a lot. So that's the most of that's the most upsetting thing. Varmin and that was probably like they're fighting words. You know, what did you call me? Varmin, you heard me get over here and say that bar man stab my beaver hat. Oh, man, I'm going to have to reshape it. And they also they're also for companies. So for companies would hire a bunch of trappers and then they would go off. OK. So while he was in St. Louis, there was a new how old is he at this point? So he's like mid 30s. OK. Or no late late 30s. He's almost 40 at this point. He's got about five years left. And that's fucking crazy old for these guys. Yeah. Oh, for sure. Most mountain men were like in their 20s. No one. They called him the old guy like a oldie. So they sent the Rocky Mountain Fur Company starting, they sent out a press release like, hey, we want 100 men to come on up here and we're going to start up a new thing. Now, the place they wanted to start it was where the black the Blackfoot tribe had cleared out all white people. Good call. This looks like a smashing place for a factory. Yes. The Blackfoot had had basically just wiped out all the white men there. And so they were like, let's start again. Let's go in there. There's got to be a lot of beavers. Yeah, there are a lot of beavers, but there are also a lot of you had me at Beaver. Hold on. Yeah. Hurry. There's a lot of Blackfoot Indians on the beavers are plentiful gentlemen. It's confirmed. How my next man show us. So this dude, Major Henry and General Ashley started this started this fur company and they took off with some dudes. Henry first took off with a bunch of dudes, went up there and was immediately attacked, immediately, immediately attacked and driven back. So they survived. I can't believe that didn't work out going into the area where they had said no more white guys. Plan B. I was like going down in the in the south central and be like, I'm opening was a was a good salad, a soup plantation next to a loafer store. Put your clocks down, guys. We're here to help. We're gentrified. Oh my God. First, that would be great if that's how we gentrified. Yeah. What the fuck? A loafer store. Hey, guys. Just let you know the loafers and things is open. Not a lot of people coming in. So that's when he joined up right after they had been attacked and driven back and they were looking for 100 men, you know, because they wanted more dudes to go up there. Yeah, there's not. It's not like there's a shitload of you know, when you fight a battle, it's a small battle. It's not like you're talking thousands of dudes. Right. Although this does get kind of crazy. So he went up. He's like, yeah, I'm 40. I could do this. Let's get in the game. So he's got all the Indian experience. You know, he lived with them. He knows what to do. So they stopped. They stopped to trade with trade with some re Indians. You've heard of sure. I'm a big fan of the reason because they want to get some horses. Yeah, the reason big for their horses. But then the re were like, no. And then they attacked them and killed a bunch of you. You find that happen. That happened as I was reading this. That happened a lot where people like, sure, we'll trade with you. No, we're going to kill you. I'll tell you what, I'm starting to think they don't want to trade. They just want to kill us. They just killed Jeff. That's not trading. Now do we train? Run, run, run. I think these guys think trading is murdering. They just don't understand trading. So about a third of the trappers were killed and Hugh was shot in his thigh, which to him is like, he was like, yeah, I'll just hop. I'm Hugh. There goes hopping you. There goes hopping you. It's the song. It's a famous song. Hopping you. So they backed off and they called the army. Now, clearly there was a plan behind this. I love the order of that. Yeah. And now they're like, oh, right. So remember when I said we were going to send a bunch of you in to the Blackfoot area to get killed? Well, that was the plan. And now we're going to bring in the army. We're going to clear them out. See how that works? Now, sorry, the three of you who died. It's so obvious what they were doing. So then the army came in and the army teamed up with the Sioux Indians who hated the re. That was the thing. It was also fucking complicated. So the Sioux were like, yeah, I'll fight with you guys. You can get rid of the guys we hate. We are so pissed at the re right now. We're so pissed at the re. That's so clicky. But then they got there and the army had a bunch of cannons and they just like sat on a mountain and started shooting the cannons. Who do you trust in this world? Everybody you meet is going to murder you. You're going to find out you're not going to trust anybody. Nobody. So they started shooting cannons at the at the re and the Sioux were like, what the fuck are you doing? Are we going to fight? And the army guys were like, no, this is what we do. The Sioux were like, you guys are pussies. And they all left. What the fuck is this? You're just going to shoot shit at them from a mountain? I put a pelt on for this. Amazing. So then after a while, the re were like, well, this sucks. And they gave up. They're like, hey, can we do the peace thing where we don't fight each other? We smoke a peace pipe and shit. Can you stop shooting shots from a mountain? Those huge balls at us. And then it was like, and then but then the army was like, okay, peace. And they started to leave and the trappers were like, fuck this. And the trappers set the re village on fire. Nobody is trying to make progress. You just the army calls peace like, yeah, we let the re village on fire instead. All right. So then it was, you know, beaver time, beaver times on. So the chapters all split up into groups. And Hugh was with Major Henry. And they were about 13 dudes and they were going to go and they're going to start working their way towards Yellowstone and killing beavers. Sure. So a lot of work for beavers. It was all great. Great. How many fucking beavers? Could you imagine how many beavers there were? It must have been horrifying. Horrible. It's like every day when I fell on five beavers, tripped on that beaver and fell on that beaver over there. Fucking beaver just took my drink. But when they when they burned the re village, it didn't mean they killed all the re. There was still some out there. So there were hunting groups of re around and like the first couple of nights, two trappers got killed in the middle of the night. Like it was not it was like, well, we so two nights, two dead. We got to go to 300 miles to Yellowstone. I figure we're not going to make it. I got a bad feeling about this. Now on the fifth day, they were in South Dakota and they were working for food. Sure. Meat berries, that kind of meat, not hanging meat like they had to kill them. Look a meat tree. Oh, look at this. A lamb chop. And he was a little bit out front. Of course he was. That's our guy. And he it was it was August and he walks into a cleared area in the middle of the. That's the thing always gets me about this is like there there there's no paths like they're walking just in fucking nightmare. You know what I mean? No, I yeah, I hate everything about being in that kind of nature. Oh, my God. You're just getting poked by shit and and stuck in stuff. And everywhere you move, it's just bushes. And the only thing that gets you through it is the idea that like it will end like in the day. You know, tomorrow I will be fine for them. It's them. They're like, hey, look out. There's re. So he goes into a small clearing and he's like, oh, this isn't good. This shouldn't be here. And it's a bear's nest. I'm sorry. A bear's nest. Yeah. So the bear the bears clear out an area and then that's where they sleep with their cubs. So I'm guessing they're pretty protective over. So the bear is he like basically walks into the barrel. Oh, excuse me. Is he like like seduce the bear? Oh, no. Hey, baby, how you doing? It feels like you like berries. The only thing I could do was fuck the bear. So I did. I fucked. That's how I roll. It so goes the other way. You got bear fucked. The bear immediately bites his neck and picks him up and smashes him on the ground and then tears off chunks of his skin and throws it to her cubs because she's like, hey, food walked in. Hey, here's here. So then he when she did that, he tried to get up again. What does he he's still OK? He's next to alive and his cubs are eating you. He didn't have time to grab his gun. And and she picked him up again and slammed him down again and then started. Then the whole bear family attacked him and they're just biting him and slashing him while the mom holds him down. The two cubs are just attacking him. And then his buddies hear this. They're like, well, that doesn't sound good. That's like he was getting mauled. If I didn't know any better, I'd say he's been attacked by a bear family. So then they all run for it. But they're spread out a little bit. The first guy gets there and he and he's like, oh, fuck. He runs into the water and shoots, but he shoots and kills one of the cubs. OK, good. And then the other guys come right then and the mom bears on top of Hugh, just still thrashing him. Just whale. And then they all shoot her and kill her and she falls on top of Hugh. And then the other cub runs away, which he's probably got to get a follow up on this. No, he's probably got a great bear story. Like he ran off to Bear Town. He's you guys are not going to believe it. He's the Hugh glass of bears. So OK, now he's not in a good spot. He's not good. And they're also worried now because with all the shooting and the bear screaming and the Hugh screaming, all the re Indians could be like, there's those motherfuckers. So they're a little bit of a panic. They're like, great job, Hugh. Can you get attacked by a bear quietly? Thank you. Jesus Christ, you look at you. What a mess. Well, they roll the bear off you and he's just like shredded. Hugh, he's just he's a fucking mess. He's bloody. He's mangled his entire face is torn up. Sure. His limbs is his back is completely shredded. Basically there's nowhere to tickle is the. Could you get your kidney? Oh my God, that's your kidney. Oh my God. Why is that out? Oh, God. Why is the kidney out? Hey, so he can't see. Did he try to offer the bears vermillion before? It's just been such a classic you move. Look, I have red. You can paint your faces. You can. Your nails. Those are big. So he can't he can't see. Right. He can't speak. He can't see. He can't see. He can't see. He can't see. He can't see. He can't see. He can't see. He can't see. He can't see. He can't see. He can't see. So he can't he can't see right he can't speak. There's going to be problems. He can't stand. All I can do is lay on the ground and moan. What a life. So you'll be fine. You like that here. I can't tell. So they tore off strips of their shirts and they like bound them up as best they could. Oh yeah. Well, I always say shirt pieces of shirts are like skin. Yeah. I'm sure he's going to die. Yeah. So I can't believe we're approaching a different outcome. He's so fucked up that he'll be dead by morning. We'll kick it. He'll die in the morning. We'll bury him and we'll take off. Right. Next morning comes. He was making pancakes. How do you like your flapjacks? You like it with blood? It's just dribbling blood over it. Hugh, I don't know if you should be doing that. I feel good. More peer up? Just sitting over there singing Mountain Man. As his heart beats beside him. Oh shit, that should be in me. So the major Henry was like, all right, so we'll try to carry him. And so they cut some branches off a tree and they make a litter. Do you know what a litter is? No. Okay. You know when you watch. I mean, I'm assuming it's not a place for Hugh to go potty. No, it should be. Well, you know, when they, he probably did. So they build, it's like one of those things where like in the Roman Empire where there's two dudes on each side and they're like carrying someone like a box. So it's like that. They made him like a little box. King bear. Yeah, they made him like a little throne. So they carried him for two days and they were like, oh, okay. Hugh, could you do us all a favor and fucking die? The whole time they're like, is he dead? And while they're going over rough terrain, he's like, oh, okay. Oh, Christ. What about pillows? Did you make pillows? Would it kill you guys to get some goose feathers? So the major stops and he's like, all right, if we keep carrying, if we keep carrying this dude, we're all going to die from the Indian attacks. Like they're going to come out and kill us because we're slowly bringing some asshole in a box. We're bringing a moaning white man across the fucking landscape with us. He's a fucking prince. It's like an alarm going off. Why? Why? Why? So, so they're like, all right. So we got a moaning slab of beef and, and we got it. We got to just put him down and he's going to die. So we have to leave him somewhere and then, but we can't leave him alone. Couple of guys. I need you to volunteer to sit back with you. The rest of us go and then you'll catch up with us. Horrible job. I don't see any hands in the air. Yeah. All right. So everyone's like, uh, yeah, I don't see that. Yeah. What am I doing? What are you guys? What if we all go with you and he stays? What if we leave you to watch you? You know what I mean? Actually I'm listening to his one of his moans right now. He's saying leave him alone. He said, yeah, he said, yeah, really clearly. He said, I'd rather be on my own for this one. You guys said, I'll be all right. I'll be all right. So. So then he goes, all right, I'll pay you guys. And he offered some big sum of money, like six months worth of salary, six months worth of corn, six months with a salary. And two guys are like, yeah, all right. All right. All right. So Fitzgerald and Bridger. Sure. I had a feeling Bridger would go. Fitzgerald's a little bit older. Of course. Obviously Irish. Obviously. And Bridger is 17. Okay. So what the fuck, what in the fuck is happening? Like what happened to parenting? Yeah. Like what? You could be going to college or just go ahead and take off and be a mountain man. Or just go watch a mumbling corpse in the forest while Rees kill you. So the other the other trappers all bail and Bridger and Fitzpatrick are like sitting there with this wheezing sack of veal. Yeah. With a lot in common to talk about it. 1740s. And that time when that was really 80 and 10. All right. So they're like, all right, let's kick it right here and let's wait for you to die. Okay. How you died over there, Hugh? So they just sit there and wave. Basically they just sat there and wave flies off and gave him water occasionally, you know, like a nurse. What a weird catch 22 they're in. It's insane. They gave him water like die. Die. So they waited until night and then morning and he's still alive in the next morning. Okay. So then the next day they dug his grave and they're like, all right, let's do this. All right, you at time to wrap it up. We're ready for you. Breathing you whenever you're ready, buddy. And they waited. Always being freaked out about Indian attack and the longer they stayed, the farther away their group. Oh yeah. Which is the other thing like, how do you get to catch up with them? Like, Hey, we'll be over by the tree. We're going to just walk straight. No turns. You know, the mountain and there's another one next to it right there. We'll be right. We'll be right there. Right between those. Unless you guys stay longer and then we'll be farther up. We're going that way head towards the mountain. And how will we know that you're fine? We won't. You know how there's no trails or roads. Follow that. Yeah, follow that. So we'll sprinkle some Vermilion. So and then now they're thinking now, I would assume they're getting worried about how they're going to find them. They probably would at some point to like the more days ago by the last chance we have of finding these guys, you know, and the guys are like, we'll be over in Wyoming. Yeah. So that's like two person walk to Wyoming. Then night came and then a day and then wheezy just kept on wheezing, you know, and then another night and another day of five days past and the dude hasn't fucking died. But he's getting worse. Like five days past now, like Jesus Christ, every day he gets worse, but he's not dying. And there was it seemed like there was no worse to get. Yeah. Before. And he just keeps on fucking living. There's got to be an odor to it. Jesus Christ. So Fitzgerald Fitz was like, we should say we buried him. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. And then we'll see. We'll go back and we'll see like heroes like we stayed with them for five days and then we put them in a hole and they were like, you guys are awesome. And you're great about man. Are you tough guys? And Bridger was like, yes. Yes. I'm down to roll a very good idea. Check, please. And then Fitz was like, but if we bury him, we got to take all his stuff because we can't show up without his stuff because then it'd be like, what did you bury his rifle and all of his shit and be like, no, we brought it. So we got to take all his shit too. So we got, we got to take all his stuff and then just leave him out here. This massive bloody man. I can hear you. I hate your plan. Shut up you. So that's what they do. Okay. They're like, yep, good plan. So they drag him down to the edge of a creek. Jesus Christ. And then they put him on, he's like under a berry bush and like near a little creek. So he's got water and then they leave him. So nice of them. And then they leave him. Here you go. Here's a little water for you, bud. Good luck with everything. All right. See you later, bro. Take it easy, man. Hope your skin comes back. So he left, uh, what was basically Michael Myers. Oh no. So, so several days go by. Several lovely vacation days for you. Beautiful days. Beautiful days. Just like big sandals. Yeah. Just lovely. Just relaxing, catching up on some seeds. My size maybe. Poolside. So he wakes up and he's like, uh, guys, hey, fire's out. Uh, hey, uh, hey, what are we doing? But, uh, bros, not funny. Guys, where are you? Guys. He reaches down for his stuff, you know, his pouch and his, uh, shot and his flint. He's like, oh, my, my gun's gone and my horn and all my shit. I don't know why they had horns. All my shit's gone. Uh, and we should bring that back. Horns. How you guys doing? And then he just was just like, oh my God, they left me and they took all my shit. And he was like, with friends like these, just yelled cunts, cunts, cunts. So he assesses the situation and he's like, okay, I'm skin to the bone in some places. Uh, part of my hair is gone and there's just, uh, an open thing there. And, uh, and my entire back is a horrific gash. I'm just going to itch my brain real quick, but now he's mad. And I'll tell you one thing I think I've learned about you. Yeah. You don't make him mad. You don't make you mad. So he was like, all right, I'm going to fucking crawl to Yellowstone. Jesus Christ. And I'm going to kill those guys. Yes. Of course he can't really move. Right. That's going to be an issue. So that's a little while while off. So he laid underneath the, the berry bush and he ate the berries and he drank the water until he figured he could move a little bit. A snake came by. He killed the snake. I don't know with what he must've just grabbed it and I tore it apart and then he ate the snake and he's like, okay, yum food. I feel a little bit better. And now he rolls over to try to stand up and he goes, Oh, I can't stand up because only two of his limbs will function. One arm and one leg. So he starts crawling on one arm and one leg. This is going to take a while. Yeah, it's not going to be fun. And he decided that the closest place to get to was Fort Kiowa. How the fuck is he even thinking? He was a fucking mountain man. The brain is always ticking. Now Fort Kiowa is 250 miles away. So it's going to take a couple of days. By car. What is that? By car. That's four hours. And that by crawl. By half crawl. By half crawl. By two limb to crawl. So he'd go a little ways yard by yard and then he'd pass out for a little while and he'd keep going and on and on. Lovely. But he lived with a Pawnee tribe, right? So he knew how to like look for food and he would like dig up roots to eat and he would find bird nests. And so he's slowly getting nourished as he goes and he's washing, he's washing off his wounds and he's slowly. All the time he's thinking those cuts. That's all the carrot on the end of the fucking stick. So at one point he saw some wolves take on a buffalo and then he just waited until they were all full and then he went over and scared them away and then he like. Which is not hard when you're a two-limbed man with your brain falling out of your head. You guys live around here? And he sucked the marrow out of the bones and he ate the guts. No he doesn't have any fire. So he's just like straight raw gutting. Right there is where I'm like I'm I'm it's over. No can do. It would be these guys who wouldn't. I mean it would be over for me the second a bear moved towards me. My heart. That would be the end of Gareth Reynolds story as a mountain man. He was like I guess I'm just going to have to eat raw guts. What else is new. So that really made him stronger. And then he came across an abandoned Indian village. Right. So then he came across an abandoned Indian village. OK. And looking good. Which is just to the nines. I just love that there's an abandoned Indian village. And and there were dogs there. Right. I loved his gut breath. So he took him a while but he finally coaxed one of them over and he strangled it. And then he ate it. Here boy. Here boy. So now now he's walking. Jesus Christ. OK. So not good for everyone else. So he is he is completely. This is where it gets really gross. He is this is where all of the places he can wash and keep clean on the front and on his arms and legs are keeling and they're scabbing over. Yeah. Right. But his back is sort of a different story because the flies have been laying. Oh no. And so his back is covered in maggots. Which in a way though is a good sign. Right. Is it. Yes it is because it means that they're eating their like their feeding off of. Yeah. His bacteria. OK. So in a way but they also but they also would do that to dead things. Yes. Yes. Look it could be better. Definitely giving it a shot of optimism to the. You're saying a back maggot party is a pro. I'm saying if one wanted to spin it one could. If one wanted. So then he ran into a party of Sue. Hey Sue party. But they were friendly and they were like oh wow. Hey man. Your back looks really bad. So does your front. What's up with you bro. Hey you start. What's going on with you. And then we'll talk about it. Then we'll get into us but we've just been through the same shit. We really want to hear your story. It looks like you were mauled by a family of bears. So they cleaned up his wound and they they put I guess they sewed they sewed bare skin on his back. Oh the fuckers. To cover it. I get. And when they when whoever took that off. Yeah. Just go. That's. Hey. Do not come into the wigwam for a little while. No deodorizer in there. And then they helped him get to Fort Kiowa which is where he was headed. Sure. 250 miles away. And then they won the story at Fort Kiowa. They were like these two guys. Dude kick it. Hang with us for a while. Rest up. And then you know do what you got to do. And he was like fuck that. So he stayed there for two days. He wasn't even like he was. I'm not sleeping till the concert dead. So and he said get me on a fucking boat. And they were like well the only way we can get on a boat is if you join up with our fur company and then we'll take care of her. And he's like fine. And so now he signs up with a French fur company and they hire him as a trapper and they give him a gun and all the supplies. And so he's he's good to go. I can't believe he's alive. It's fucking insane. So they're so then they they're like they're like we're going to go up and trade with the Mandan Indians. So let's do this. And so he gets on a boat two days later. He gets on a boat and they're cruising out and then they go past a village that used to be a man in village. But now there's re Indians here. And they're like well that's weird. They're not friendly with each other. So that's a strange sign. And by the way it's now November 20th. So he got attacked in August. Jesus Christ. And it's now it's not November. So everyone's a little freaked out by the village thing. And then one day he was off the boat looking for food to wrestle up some food in the in the end the reese attack and kill everybody. OK. And so and so he's off hunting. Yes. Oh my God. And then they come after him the reese and they're chasing him down and they're about to get him right when they're about to get him to Mandan Indians come up on horseback and grab him and take off with them as like a fuck you reese. We're out of here. So suck it. We got your white man. So he's got bare back. We've got your bare white man. So now he's alone again and he makes his way to Fort Tilton which is part of the Colombian fur company. And they heard a story and they were like dude what do you need from us. Anything you fucking need. And he says just get me across the fucking river. Oh my God. All he wants to do is get on the other side of the river because the re aren't on that side. And so he can go. I just want to kill those guys. So good how much he wants to kill them. So great. So they're like yeah we can put you on this side of the river. Sure. Put him over there. Now. Now it's a 250 mile journey to Fort Henry. And where the cunts are. That's where those cunts are. But now it's freezing winter. Right. Have you ever been up in that area in the winter. It's the most horrifying thing. Well I'm from Wisconsin. It's worse. It's worse because the wind blows down through Canada. And so I was there once and it was it was like negative. It was like zero degrees but with wind chill it was negative 40. And I had to pump gas and I thought I was going to die. I one time tried in Wisconsin tried to go running in like negative 30. My buddy was like what are you doing. I wrapped my whole body. I'm going to Hugh Glassett. Yeah. And I got eight feet was like I'm not Hugh Glassett. So he's about to enter a bad climate. For most people or what you call it a bit chilly. It's a bit nippy. It's a bit nippy. So he now is on this journey where he has to find food and it's fucking freezing. Takes him a month. But he makes it. Oh my god. And he sees Fort Henry and it's across a river. So he cuts down a couple of trees and he ties them together. Oh no. And he floats across the river. You just see him. Yeah. I'm coming for you. It's just the amount of times that he's just like mumbling and all you hear is cunts. Cunts. And then he gets to Fort Henry and he kicks in the doors and nothing totally empty. Everyone's bailed. So it turns out they have headed down the Yellowstone River. So Hugh keeps moving. Of course. Another month of hell. More in the wind. Now it's like fucking December and January and he's fucking cruising through all this shit. It's a total nightmare. Fucking cunts. 1824 comes January now. It's been going on for six months. So at the Bighorn River he finds a new stockade. And he goes in the doors and everyone is there. All these people. All the guys from his group and they're all like hey, hey, hey Corpse, how are you? You look cold. What happened? Hey Hugh. They were weird because Jim and Fritz said he was dead. Oh, I mean Matt, what's his name? Fitzpatrick? Fitzgerald. The second you see you walk into the door. Oh, well wait, so He's like your boys left me for dead. I crawled for months with maggots I'm here and Jim was there and Jim was in the corner like cowering and freaking out. Yeah at this point blubbering as as Hugh told the story what he had done and he was like hey Hey, man, I really thought uh, so so Jim is 17 so he's like he just turns into this little crying little bitch and Hugh Can't bring himself to kill him. He's like I can't fucking do it look at first of all your whole mountain man thing is based on your reputation and Now this kid has to live with being the guy who left someone to die and he's clearly just a blubbering idiot So you can't kill him, but wait kill him. But wait. Yeah, the it I mean He's gone to such lengths right, but what he thinks is that fits is the guy All right This is the older guy and fits was the leader and yeah It was the guy with the plan still all that way to be like right and fucking I'll just have a coffee So he's like where the fuck is fits so and they're like he's climbing out the bathroom window and They're like you just missed it. Just missed nobody just missed him November in this time just missing someone is like they really he will realize in there This was not fits lifted November. He just left went two months ago. Oh god. Damn it. I shouldn't have made that right so So here's the worst part is that he fits went down the Missouri River in a boat While he was walking up the Missouri River, so they passed each other You must just like oh Fuck yeah So so And fits has he was gone, right? Right. So that's also the other thing. He wants the fucking gun so He's a man of principle. So a few days later on February 24th He and three other dudes take off to go back the other way Back to Fort Atkinson and they're headed down the Platte River to the end of the Missouri River and then to Fort Atkinson Right. So along the way they see a Pawnee village and they're like, okay, let's trade for a little food We have beaver pelts because we always do you know us you roll five deep with five belts deep always So they sit down at the table and they start talking and You notice there's something a little bit off about their accents and Then he realized they're not Pawnee and he stands up and yells. These are Rick arreys And then it's on and then everyone starts shooting scrambling and fucking running So now turns out this day degrees were a tribe that had had their Their village burned down by other trappers. That's how now they were here It's a fucking nightmare Yeah everyone's shooting and running and guys run out to the river and jump in and get shot and and they all scatter right and And then a few days later a couple of them roll into Fort Atkinson and they're like, this is what happened Everyone's dead. He was dead again Everyone's gone But he wasn't dead. Oh my god He would lost his rifle and he still had some shit and then he started the 400 mile walk to Fort Kiowa alone He came rolling in around June I Just realizing he's actually a terrible mountain man He couldn't be like it couldn't go more fucked up for him. He just wouldn't take no Everything's saying stop and here's a quote when he made it to Fort Kiowa. Oh my back Although I lost my rifle and all my plunder a filigree rich when I found my knife flint and steel in my shop pouch These little fixings make a man feel right pert when he is three or four hundred miles from anybody or any place No, not me. You know, it makes me feel right Bert hotel Nice hot bath Jacuzzi tub That's a Jacuzzi tub. Oh you you're gonna love it. Okay. You're going to love this Jacuzzi tub. Oh That let me turn up the jets I'll take the bear skin off my back when I kill fits So that's pretty close to to Fort Atkinson so a few days later he rolls into Fort Atkinson and Captain Bennett Riley is in charge Okay, well at least he thinks and he comes in and he starts screaming That he wants to see Fitzgerald and explained that he's going to kill Fitzgerald, yes, and He wants his gun back Okay, so Fitzgerald is there oh god, but there's a little bit of a problem Fitzgerald enlisted in the army in April So he's gone no he enlisted in the army so he's there but now he's a member of the army so he can't fucking kill him so Captain Riley is like you can't kill a soldier cuz then I have to go to the army And Riley is like you can't kill a soldier cuz then I have to arrest you and kill you Sure you do give it a shot yeah here I'll put a gun in my mouth and pull the trigger right now The hilarious thing is you think I'm alive So Fitzgerald's glad he joined the army so right yeah, so Riley Makes them sit down at a table of meat face to face And have a chat, awkward, have a chat ski Awkward hey bro, so uh I thought you were dead You motherfucking cunt So first Fitzgerald He has to give up the right hand So first Fitzgerald he has to give up the rifle so he gives you the rifle right so he's got a little like yeah That's right. You're fucking right Yep, you I just yeah glad you guys got it. You got the rifle back. Yeah, I bet you are yeah really glad Hey, where's your rifle you have? I know motherfucker Hey Gunless, how you doing over there fine backless Fine quarter face so Fitz explained to me goes look dude. I stay with you for five days. This is a big misunderstanding. You were a big bloody Sack of goo you were bare leftovers. You were fucking melting in front of us You were a lit candle the smell coming off you was fucking I kept saying please fart if you Have you ever seen anyone Take a steak put out in the Sun for five weeks, and then pack dog shit inside of it. That was you you were horrifying And he's like look you look dead, and we couldn't stay any longer You go Right you got a point you got kind of a point But then he's still mad and he basically tells all the soldiers year living with that cunt You know and just explains how he's just it's just a piece of shit Yeah, and and then all the soldiers and the and the captain they Gather a bunch of money together and supplies, and they give them a bunch of shit and go sorry this happened to you here you go Here's your party guess ceramic a new car a ceramic Dotson a Go you I know that you got mauled by bears and left for dead, but here's a chair Look you get a whole chair It's got a padding up front special memory foam look at that you huh here's a briefcase Who needs a face when you've got a briefcase and a chair? so Yeah, they give a bunch of shit, and they go you know Sorry about your hey and and and then you looks at fits and says you better stay in the army for the rest of your life Which is the greatest line ever yeah You I'll be waiting, but I don't want to you're gonna stay in the army and even if you're up dead Oh, I'd still stay in the army. He doesn't die So then he goes back to be a mountain man But as an independent no longer works for companies he is his takeaway is don't work for a fucking company I mean you gotta pay a little extra taxes and do the uh well my own employer You gotta do quarterly you gotta do quarterly assessments, but a lot of 1099s, but I have a good guy My guys good Guns are right off. Yeah, that's our right off plus my back surgeries. I can put that against some of the 1099s Yeah, cuz a bunch of shit I get some of the 1099s yeah cuz a bear ate my back a family of bears ate me You know why that fucking company don't be a company man Let me tell you if there's one thing I learned by being mauled by a family of bears It's don't work for a company. You know what that bear said to me right before he mauled me Hey, are you an independent? What's your filing status I'm an independent. I'm an independent. I'm an independent So he went on to do that in a in 1825 he was shot by an arrow in the back He had to be transported. This is classic you he had to be transported 700 miles by boat Before they could find someone to take it out right what? This is such a fucked up time They just it was just like anything happened. You're fucked. It wasn't like 700 miles by boat he just lay in there going I've been through worse Tell you I'm pretty excited to get this arrow out usually I crawl this This is a mosquito bite Then in 1833 he and two other trappers were ambushed by the re He was never seen again, but a trapper friend of Hughes killed some reason a few days later and found his hawkin rifle on one of them That's it. That's the tale of old glass, but that but what's kind of good about that ending is that Hugh may have lived I Like to think he was still alive. Yeah, right. Yeah. Yeah sure I died Uh-huh you betcha yeah, that's right me Hugh grass dumbass. It's glass I know, but I'm pretending it's oh alias a new alias. Yeah, no it's glass. It's grass Grass, but you look like nope can I see your back never? His back. He's got scars on his back This was a movie in like 1971 but it wasn't called Hugh glass it was called something else this story Yeah, and as I was as I was researching this Because I found this by I just typed in who was who was the biggest American badass Google and he came up and and As I was so I was reading all these different stories about it And this is mostly pieced together by three guys who were on the in the group with him, right? And then his of course his tales. Yeah, I'm sure which I'm sure everyone was just like, okay Then don't talk to him. Oh Jesus don't ask you how you don't ask him about the bear. Hey about the bear That's like that's like in LA like asking someone how they are. Yeah Well, I'm working you're pretty good. Good. No here goes Hugh. Hey, how are you? Bear you hear about the bear attack. Yeah. Yeah you I'm at yeah Here you I'm your roommate. Holy shit. So I'm gonna just gravel my back's gone My back did you hear me? Yeah you yeah, you got to take the trash out you you see this gun I know how I got it back. I'll take it out. I don't even care anymore Leonardo DiCaprio Has signed on to play Hugh Glass. Oh, no, I mean that oh no, but because as I was googling You know you Google and what yeah the searches come up at the bottom and said Hugh Glass movie and I was like really and I clicked on it That'll be a pretty good movie. Oh my god. It's gonna be crazy, but he had I hope he grows some facial hair He can't be a fucking clean cut with a hair slick back good-looking you The movie they made in the 70s is apparently super bloody I think that's cuz use life was super bloody So the whole I was I was always In I mean, it's almost like because I think Americans are pretty pussified now You sure for the most part? Yeah, but it's amazing that there was a time When we were basically Russians, yeah Right. I mean you can't That it honestly is it's impossible to fathom It is completely impossible to fathom how that I mean I would cuz you I don't know That I mean I would cuz I know what I would do die die I would have died when I got shot in the thigh Leave me here No I always say that like you know like in like Friday the 13th when like Jason's chasing someone through the forest with a machete yeah, the person's running their hearts I would literally like take a branch and just stab my own neck like five times Just to end it just to be like I can't deal with this stretch Even if it meant that I got to like a freeway and like flag down a truck Yeah, I just I couldn't deal with the stress let alone crawling without a back to go kill a man Without a back There is fucking insane, but also though the all the Indian stuff to me was even crazy Yeah, like they all hated each other Yeah, politics and stuff was we are so pissed at the re right now And then and then you'd be like you guys are friends right not anymore. We were we were We were talking to the man and they said you guys are dicks We heard y'all been talking mad shit, so we're not even trading with you guys anymore Except we're trading arrows ping ping. Oh you got 700 miles to get that taken out Better get a boat. That's just a hop skip it a life Oh Well he's interesting I like you like you too. I like you a lot yeah That was our first history one. That's good. I didn't I had no idea about this gentleman No, I didn't either yeah some people a lot of people do a lot of people were taught about him in School what's that? That's that? Oh, that's that place with the book reads. So that's me. Yeah All right, so if you have any ideas for dollops send them to walk in the room at gmail and I'll peruse them over some people are and send the hey some guy said something Cool, right. That's not a that's not an hour. You gotta talk to my friend Reggie He's perfect so fucking weird weird dude, man All right, goodbye You You You You You You You You You You You You You You