 Just getting here, there might be some noise in the background on this one because we got a contractor here. Yep. Digging up the entire bottom of the house and moving a water heater and all kinds of stuff. And then cleaners are going to come. Oh, good. Not the people that clean your house, the people who take care of dead bodies. Yeah, right. Yeah. And then you have a parade in 45. We're going to have a parade in 45 minutes for the World Cup. Really oddly for South Korea. Bad call. Again, planning. You planned oddly. Well, there's a lot of Koreans that live in the neighborhood. Still, you're not a Korean. And I thought, let's have a parade for your shitty team. I mean, your heart's in the wrong place. So they're just going to cruise through the backyard. Okay. And that's in what, 45, 50? 45 minutes. All right. So we should probably get moving. I want to apologize to people for last week's show, the last two minutes, because Gary, Gary Reynolds. My name is Gareth. What Gary did when he stepped on the control. There's one dial. There's one thing that you can turn in this whole setup. There's other things I could do. And you turned it up to 900. You just smashed a perrier. I'm not bringing that up. I did just smash a perrier. But now I don't even get to be close to the dial. Now the dial's really, really far. Now you've been moved away from the dial. And with good reason. Yeah. Look, I apologize. I'm going to go to Rutgers Island. Okay. Another thing. You know, when you're talking for an hour, sometimes you might forget the name of shit. We don't need people. Yeah, we just couldn't remember the name. It wasn't like we didn't know what it was. Did you know a couple weeks ago I had a guy on Twitter go, I really like all your podcasts, your stint stuff, but you're fucking more when it comes to science. You're an unnecessary tool. Just don't listen. What are you doing? Thank you? Okay, keep buying my stuff. Thanks? So I just picture him listening to me and getting angry about science. He's so stupid, but so funny. But he's such a fucking moron with science. And I guarantee you the guy's probably a climate change denier. All right. So he's a scientist. Dave, are you excited, bro? Are you excited? Well, yeah. Yeah. May 14th is the next live virtual dollop. We'll be doing another dollop with Looped Live. It'll be a 6 PM Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual dollop. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of media in them, videos and pictures. David does a very great job and they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade. Arby's, we've got the meats. No, no, no. Wrong copy, Dave. Wrong copy. This is for the... Yeah. Just stick to what we're doing. So May 14th, Looped Live, 6 PM Pacific time. Join us again for another live virtual dollop. We've got the meats. So this week I picked someone famous. Okay. Somewhat. I mean, Australians probably won't know him, but he's famous to Americans in that he is an ex-president. Okay. All righty. I think he's the... Well, there's two badass ex-presidents. Okay. Do you know who they are? Well, the vampire hunter. He's a real badass. He had something to do with slavery too, if memory serves. Did you see that movie? No, I didn't. Oh my God. Awful. Yeah. Oh my God. You can't even believe that it's a movie. It's just how... Well, you would think that with all the things that... I just love how it's okay to make an ex-president such a bitch. A founding father over here now, they make them... You can do whatever you want. Yeah. We could dig up George Washington and make him a puppet for a day and people would be like, that's great. That sounds disrespectful. I don't know. Teddy Roosevelt. Oh yeah, Teddy Roosevelt. He's a huge badass. He was a badass. And then the other one... I would try to remember the name of the freedom fighters, but I don't want to fuck it up and have Twitter blow up on me. I know. Now we have to censor what we say or people will start screaming. I've been raped. Are you guys happy? You've hurt us. Andrew Jackson. Yeah, okay. He was a crazy fucking badass. Right. The American public knew him as Old Hickory. Not all the public because that's news to me. Because for some people say it was he was tough as Hickory on a battlefield. We'll get to more wise name later. But okay, we'll say the bad things first because if there's anyone who has any American Indian heritage they're going, what? Because it's like being, what about Hitler? It's kind of... He was a badass. It's kind of like that. So as far as the war with the American Indian, he would be their Hitler. He did the Trail of Tears. He's the one who marched him across all the way to Oklahoma and thousands died. He's that gentleman. So if we take that one part, but that is also a badass thing to do, I guess. You can argue there's two sides to it, I guess. Which I think is badass-y. Okay, so we have a growling dog now. Hey. Hey. Okay, so he joined the army at the age of 12. Holy shit. Yeah. Alright. Fighting when they were fighting against the British. Hey, I'd like to help you guys. Not until you get a little hair on your stuffs. No, look, I glued some on this morning. Let's go get them. I know. That was an age where you just, any age you show up you're like seven. You're like, hey man, can I be a part of this? Okay. There's a three year old that's like, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, fighter. Give him a gun. Okay, give him a gun. Let's get him out there. So he was like a messenger guy. Okay. He was captured and taken prisoners by the Brits. He was the only US president who was a POW. At 12. At 12. At 12. You're like, oh, look at you. Could I have some more, sir? And then one day some British general ordered him to spit on his shoes. My guess is that didn't go over well. And a young 12 year old Andrew Jackson said, go fuck yourself. And the British guy was so pissed that he slashed his face leaving scars. Oh shit. Okay. But now you've got, so we're starting out creating a badass. Yeah. Scars. Check. Like first thing you need, a couple of scars. At 12. Check. Right? Yeah. So then years later he kept moving up in the army and became a general. Okay. Became a general and he was in charge during the greatest victory in the Revolutionary War at New Orleans. That was when the battle for beads. Battle for beads. Right. Correct. And then whoever got the most beads got to see the most titties. Got to see the most titties. Yeah. That was, that's 1812. I thought that's where it came from. It's that this is, this isn't the revolution or this is the war 1812. So he, is that okay with you science? So he didn't have enough guys when he got sent down there. He is like, we don't have enough dudes. Cause the British had like twice as many guys coming in. So he just started getting everybody around and he talked pirates into fighting on the side of the pirates. Yeah. All right. Okay. Yeah. Okay. You make a good pie. Why you're gonna take your gold. All right. Fine. Yeah. All right. We'll fight with you. All right. Fine. We'll come with you. I just can't imagine talking pirates into it. Oh yeah. The cold approach to pirates. There's butterflies. Okay. How old is he? 14 at this point. Okay. Excuse me. I'm pirates. Sorry. We would like you to join forces with us to fight the British. Why is that? You little son of a bitch. Well, we're greatly outmanned sir. Sorry. So nervous. You know, he went in and he was like, what the hell? I don't know how he was probably like 30 at this point. And he was just like, Hey, you fucking cunts, get off your goddamn boat and do something with your fucking life. That's what you got to do. You can't. Yeah. You gotta go out pirate the pirate. That's right. You gotta pirate the pirate. Yeah. And he's like, Hi pirates. I have a recommendation. I represent a battle that's coming up soon. I'd love to get you guys involved in it. Love to book you guys for it. Love that all eye patch thing. That's gorgeous. Um, and plus he had the, he had the scars. Yeah. So like, Hey, look at you. You know, I've got a pirate. I've got a, I've got a, a parrot, but you've got scar on your face. I've got food coming out of my mouth. Yes. That's right. Mouth and cheeks. Now listen, gentlemen, anybody who's got a pig leg or a scar on his face, the honorary pirate, come with us Jackson. Ordinary pirate. Come with us. Um, so he ends up defeating the British with half the man and totally out of supplies. Found out later that, um, the peace had been declared two weeks before, but he didn't get the word. So he fought the best, most useless battle in the war. And won. Did you imagine? No. The pirates are like, I sorry, what did you? We actually are getting some texts here. Wait a minute. Actually this thing's been over for a while. Did you know that AJ? Oh, sorry about all the dead and whatnot. We did it. We did it. We did. We weren't supposed to. We didn't have to do that. We didn't have to do that. Can anybody have a, here's an idea. Jumped on a fucking horse and told us anyone want to fucking put a note on a goddamn pigeon, right? Yeah. Something or a Raven like game of Thrones. Anything. I think game of Thrones, every, every correspondence is done with a Raven. You got it. It's a lot of dependency. How do ravers know where the fuck to go? Well, that's the thing, right? I mean, eventually, like you're talking, you think like you get pissed when you get an email in your spam box that you really want it in your inbox. I mean, there were times when you depended on a fucking bird's toe to get to you. That a Raven comes in, there's a sale at the gap. God damn, what am I spam? Good Lord. Fucking spam Ravens. Spam Ravens. When Jackson received an order to disband his troops immediately after he refused to just cast his volunteers adrift and send them on their way home alone and pledged with his own money to finance the supplies needed to get their trip back to Tennessee. He gave up his horses for the sick and walked aside his men encouraging them when needed and disciplining them when necessary and his determination combined with his willingness to suffer alongside his men causes men to call him Old Hickory. Now I don't know how those two things go together. I think the original one of Old Hickory that he was tough as Old Hickory on the battlefield makes more sense than he was like a caring dad. Let's just say he smoked a pipe. Let's just say he smoked a hickory pipe. So anyway, he was a badass, but also like took care. Like he's like a leader. That's what a leader is. He's a good parent. He's a very good dad. Oh, also the Creek Indians had a different nickname for him. They called him Sharp Knife. So if you're on the other side, shit's a little bit different. You mean Old Hickory? Oh, no, no, Sharp Knife, Sharp Knife. It's just Old Hickory. Oh, my eye. Sharp Knife, Sharp Knife. He had a temper. Sharp Knife. Yeah, Sharp Knife had a temper. He was known for sudden flashes of rage. The best kind. And always calling for a duel. So he was the dude who all like you'd be like, hey, man, you stepped on my foot. Let's do it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, never mind. Just make sure. No, we're dueling. No, no, no, dueling at noon. No, no, no, no, no, no. It's on. I don't want a duel. It's on. I don't want a duel. It's on. He was like, he's like one of those guys in prison who are like, you've got to respect me, motherfucker. Yeah, right away. Did you disrespect me? Did you disrespect me? No, I was just going to the, all right, bitch, I'm going to fuck you up. No. This is, this is like when I read this, I was like, OK, he had 103 duels in his lifetime. Jesus Christ. I mean, that's a lot. That's insane. That's a lot. That's everybody. That's like half the people he met. I mean, really, that's just like, that's every other day dueling. That's like a once a week duel. No, he's like crazy. What? That is close. OK. That's nuts. 103. I'd rather duel. Just pay the goddamn bar tab, Andrew. I'd rather duel. I think we're going to, Andrew, please. No. He looked at me funny. We're dueling. He has one eye. I don't like the one. We're dueling, cocclopes. What'd you call it? Cocclopes. Hey, talking about cyclops? Yeah, I read it. Got mad at it. I read it. I dueled it. I dueled the word. Last night, I dueled a tree. That's it. You thinking cyclops? Duel. It's just, it's just baiting you into duels. All he does. You mean cocclopes? This is a fine meal. What do you mean by that? Fine meal? Where's the meal I ever had? I'll see you out front tomorrow at noon. All right. So here's the reason he dueled a lot. He had a woman that he met that he was in love with who he wanted to marry. And then she thought she'd been divorced. But it turns out her ex-husband had done something and so they weren't divorced. So he was banging a lady who was married. But they were in love. So he wasn't going to walk away from that shit. So everybody knew about it. And the guy wouldn't let her get a divorce. And he was calling her, you know, that's my wife. Time to take out the trash. So for years, he wasn't married to her, but he was banging her. Like they were like, they were like living together. And so everyone was calling her a whore. The townspeople can be so cruel. You've got all these crazy assholes calling her a whore. And everyone is like, all right, let's do it. Just dropping the gloves. Let's shoot. Like so he's just killing people all over town. And everyone's like, no, I got this one. I got this one. Why wouldn't he just? She's a whore. Oh, here we go. That's it. Why wouldn't he just duel the ex-husband? Well that would make more sense, wouldn't it? I mean, that's the first duel you bark for, I say. Yeah. Apparently, no, he dueled everybody. Yeah. And he was like, no, I'm not going to the root. I'm dealing with the symptoms. Now let's duel. So he was, and the thing is, she had told him when they met that she was divorced. So he thought he was getting into something fine. But then he should duel her. And then he loved the broad. He's like, here we go. You know how many people want to have to shoot? Oh boy. My heart's a duel in itself right now. And then there were a lot of people who in Tennessee, so a lot of people want, who were like calling her a whore everywhere. Especially because on the people who supported his opponents, would all be like, he's married to a whore. And not just in his face, but in newspapers and books. And then he'd be like, man loves whore. Extra, extra, man loves whore. And then he'd be like, okay, I got to kill the guy who wrote that. And I got to kill the newsboy. So one guy, the most famous duel was with Charles Dickinson, who was a newspaper man who wrote an article about Jackson's whore wife during an election. More on 6A. But Dickinson was considered like an awesome shot. And Andrew Jackson wasn't that good of a shot. He sort of had, he sort of went with the more thinking man's game plan of dueling. So like there's two kinds of dueling. And this, I'll tell you, I'll tell you his kind of dueling. This is why he's such a badass. Jackson thought it'd be best to let Dickinson turn and fire first, hoping that since he would be so quick and sort of flustered trying to get the shot out first that he would miss. And well, there's another way that could go. But his plan was that he would then miss and then in a duel you get one shot each. So then the second guy, it's like, hey buddy, the second guy can be like, can you lead a little bit to the left? No, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Jackson, old hickory, old hickory, please. The second guy could take as much time as he wanted. By the way, now what was that about my whore wife? Stupidest thing ever. I don't know who thought this up, but they were morons. I would totally be the guy who fired the shot. I was like, oh, damn it, I'm going to die. So sure enough, Dickinson turned and shot and hit Jackson right in the chest. All right. Didn't kill him though. So if he's not dead, he gets to fire the next shot. Because rules. Rules, you got to have dual rules. So then he carefully and slowly aimed and shot him in the throat where the talking part happens. No, no, no, wait. Can you move when you can? I guess you're supposed to stand perfectly still. You can't bob and weave a little. You should be able to bob and weave. You should be able to shimmy. No, you. It should be like basketball rules, like traveling. Like you can have a pivot foot. Like you have your pivot foot and you can kind of pivot out a little and like move a little otherwise. Gentlemen, he's pivoting too much. Is he not? I didn't see him lift that toe up, sir. Could you imagine he slowly doing all these guys sitting around going, oh, come on, Andy. Andy, come on. Look, Andy's not moving. Just get it over with, Andy. Come on, Andy. Shoot me where you must. Shoot him on my throat. Andy, just graze him or something. Gentlemen, he shot me in the chest. I have a hole in my chest. I'll need you to get a paramedic or whatever we have in this day and age. I'm about to shoot a man's throat. So so he shot him in the throat and killed him instantly because apparently a throat can't handle a musket ball. It's a kill shot. A chest can. OK, yeah. She killed him on the spot. OK, so he's a no shit fucking killer. He's like he's like a steely eyed. So what he just looks like he gets a beer and drinks it and then it shoots out of his chest after like a cartoon. He's a Clint Eastwood guy now, right? I mean, yeah, there's another check. Scar check. Clint Eastwood check. They're getting shot in the chest and having like the calmness to be like your throat, please. You guys want to get a beer? What do you want to do? Do me a favor. Go to the bar. Order me a beer. I'll be there after I shoot this guy's throat. Old hickory. No. OK, so in the gentleman who observed and the gentleman of Tennessee were outraged by that he did that. Like in their eyes, it should have been like, well, you can't make them. They were all like, you can't make him just sit still and shoot him. They pictured they pictured just you both fire at the same exact. Yeah, you're supposed to. And he had a whole different game plan. Well, that's not how we do it. You don't know the rules to murder. Play fair. So he then got a reputation as a brutal, cold blooded killer and married to a whore and lost a lot of friends in his reputation. And he was known as a violent, vengeful man. So in Tennessee, he became kind of a social outcast. OK. I like it. But he don't give no shit. Yeah, he ran out of shits to give. So the shot that hit him in the duel ended up close to his heart. And so it couldn't be removed. Much like that whore. Much like that whore. We're going to put that in his Wikipedia page. Much like his whore wife. Much like that whore wife of his. And he comes back from the dead, you said what? You fired too early. Oh, God. So they thought if they took it out of the puncture, they ordered and kill him. And so he had that at him. But they used to say about him that he had so many bullets in him from all the duels that he sounded like a bag of marbles. Like he was just full of bullets. That's a better name than Oh Hickory. Here comes a bag of marbles. Here comes Jackson. He's jogging. And sometimes because of the one that was close to his heart and close to his lungs, he would just start coughing up blood. So the rest of his life, he would sometimes just start coughing up blood, which had been great in like a presidential meeting. Hold on. Or a debate. My opponent. Oh, excuse me. Pardon me. Give me my kerchief. Got shot in the head. Kerchief got shot once. So he's a blood cough rubber. It's another check. Badass, badass face guard. Willing to cover blood whenever. So he was involved in two very nasty presidential campaigns against John Quincy Adams in 1924. He lost the race to him. But in 1928, he won the race. And that was an even dirtier one. And all the dirt was about his wife. So it was just dudes calling his wife a whore in print. And then he was shooting them. Like that was the presidential campaign. And how do you not want that now? I would absolutely vote for the guy who's killing people for calling his wife a whore. Could you imagine? Or what if what if like what if like Hillary is running and everyone's calling Bill a whore and she just keeps killing people? I'm down for this. This is a better way to have politics. Oh my god. This is much better. Instead. Now they're like, she walked down the stairs. Finally, she dropped a pole point. So by the time he was elected president, he had this huge popular following because he was like, how could he not? Old bag of marbles. I'm going for it. Yeah. So and it was like this big turning tide in like politics. The first the 1924 election was the first election where someone won the popular vote but lost the election. The Bush. Bushy gore. Yes. And he's he's like he's like Obama compared to Bush. Yeah. Where everyone was like, fuck this guy. Well, I'm glad we held on to the Electoral College. I mean, clearly it wasn't a problem. There's never been an issue. So his he gets elected in 1928. His wife dies two months before he takes office. Or the whore dies. What he believed from stress. That's a lot of people you got to kill to get rid of that stress. I mean, they said he said that she had a pain starting on her left side and going down her arm. So from what we know now, that's known as a heart attack. Oh, yeah. Some version of not enough oxygen going to her. But he blamed John Quincy Adams for that. Never got to kill him. But blame him. So he's 61 and he gives his inaugural address. 61 back then. That's that's. Yeah, that's all right. Especially getting shot 500 times to elect. Like right now, you like someone 71 and they weren't coughing up blood and having duels with people who were a little up there. Yeah. If McCain was coughing up blood, you'd be like, he should not get should be out. Yeah. And she's months away. And I wouldn't be surprised if McCain is coughing up blood for sure. And has been doing so for 50 years. Yeah. So so he gives up his address and he says he's going to do his best to help the people. I'm sure he said something about killing dudes, talk shit about his lady. Nobody call that goddamn dead wife a murder whore. Otherwise he'll die. Sorry, I'll stay focused. This is so great. And then he gets on his horse and he rides through the crowd to the White House. They're like, come on, we got a stagecoach over here for you. Fuck that. Is that where you get off your high horse came from? Straight through these motherfuckers. Okay. You sure you don't? We can just get you right over here. I know. Fuck no. Fuck no. I mean, later on he gets a guy comes up to him in I think it's North Carolina and tries to shoot him. It's an out of work like painter pulls out a pistol, puts it in his chest, clicks. Nothing happens. Drops that pistol, pulls out another one, puts it to his chest, shoots again. Nothing. And then Andrew Jackson beats the shit out of him with his cane. Wow. Beats the shit out of him with his cane. I mean, the guy, the idiot who came up with two unloaded guns, I mean, he needs a beating. The second one goes click, you're like, wow, fuck, I really am an idiot. I'm sure Jackson was yelling, my cane's always loaded motherfucker. He's just killing him. Okay. So he rides through the crowd on the horse. So there's another one riding through town on the horse. There's another check. Another bad house. Here we go to the White House. Okay. Now back then on an inauguration day, the White House had an open door policy. Wow. Yeah, up until this, they had an open door policy, but the reason they did was because the presidents weren't that popular. So people, so like the big Richies of the David Wakabu, congratulations. And then they'd shake hands. Would you like some tea? So Jackson was the first dude, whatever it was like, woohoo. Like all the fucking yahoos from NASCAR came out and they're like, let's have a party in the White House. Now, Mr. Jackson, I want to tell you a couple of things, man. Me and my wife, man, we're so excited for you, man. Also, my wife is pissing in the, uh, the bush over there. Sorry about that. Hey, hey, you ever hunt a crawfish with your hands? Let me ask you this. You ever eaten your own puke when you got no food? Hey man, I just want to say it's an honor, man. You know what? Punch me in the face. Punch me in the face, man. Come on, Eddie, punch me in the face. Come on, man. Come on. I'm super drunk. I won't even feel it. Come on, man. I'm sorry. I got so wasted at this White House party, man. I'm just such a big fan of you, man. Hey man, I ate your fish. The fish tank over there, I ate them. I was hungry. I didn't see none of the little pork things you had around before. Anyway, man, I'm going to scoot across the carpet real quick, man. You see my shorts? Um, so, so this means that like any filthy hobo off the street just came rolling up because they were happy he was president. Mr. President! So, so it was, unlike previous presidents, it was a fucking madhouse. People fucking hanging off the chandeliers. Like literally people standing on the furniture, people fucking everywhere, and there are like buckets of whiskey punch around because they had to provide. They had to? Yeah, they had to like, it was like an open house. So you got to, East Coast rules, open house, you got to provide for the people. So they all had like, there was booze everywhere. It sounds like King Ralph, but at the White House. Or weird science. So the party's on and he, and then that's getting a little too crazy for him. He's like, all right, let's head, let's head to another place in there. But there's people fucking everywhere. So he ends up, and the first people to arrive were all the Washington society people like, whew, Mr. Jackson. And then the fucking crowd rolled up and they're like, oh my God, the dead ones are here. A butler who'd been there forever who was like, my word. We're going to get to the butler. Oh yes, we are. So Jackson's people were like, we got to get you the fuck out of here. This is too great. Because it's turning into a fucking animal house party. And so, you know, because at first it's like fancy people kind of, then all of a sudden it's dudes and cheats with shoes made out of rubber. It's just a fucking whole different deal. So they take him out a window in the back of the White House to get him the fuck out of there. It's amazing that the White House used to be like this. Isn't that fucking amazing? Yeah. And I'm not grating to you, up until this time you could just roll up and be like, hey man, I want to shake your hand. Hey, fuck you. Later. Just do that. That'd be great. He was the first guy who, that guy who tried to shoot him was the first time a president had ever tried to assassinate one. Yeah. And that was an English dude who tried to kill him. So think about that. I'm sorry. Are you? No. Okay. So Jackson left and went to his hotel. And Tuan Michael Guista, the White House butler. Oh, TMG. Then was like, we got to get these motherfuckers out of here. So they took all the buckets of whiskey and punch and put them on the lawn. Here guys. Here boy. Here dog. Here guys. Right here on the lawn guys. Here's your whiskey punch guys. Go get it. Go get it. And they went outside. Whiskey punch. So that's how they got them all out of the house. Now Margaret Bayard Smith, who was a Washington society figure, wrote this. What a scene we did witness. The majesty of the people had disappeared in a rabble mob of boys, Negroes, women, and children scrambling, fighting, romping. What a pity. No arrangements had been made. No police officer placed on duty. And the whole house had been unadated by the rabble mob. Not one cop. It's just fucking chaos. It's like dad's gone for the weekend and the kids are partying. That's the White House. Amazing. I think Sinbad made a movie about living in the White House and I think it was this. So Jackson then went on to win the next election. He did a whole bunch of stuff. A lot of fighting with the banks. Was there another inaugurational ball? Well, I'm going to tell you the next greatest thing. I don't think he had a next inaugurational ball. I think that was the last one where they were like, well, that didn't go well. Let's build a fence. What do you mean? I was just thinking about the lessons we've learned. Maybe the common man shouldn't be able to walk into the White House and say fuck you to the president when he wants to. Because you imagine if you could, like that's all Obama's day would be. Fuck you. Thank you. Fuck you. I know you're from Kenya, you piece of shit. Can I keep this napkin? Show me that birth certificate, asshole. Also, I think it's cool what you did for the BCS. Yeah, nice job on that one. That's cool. Even though you're black. Even though you're part black. Okay. 1835. Uh huh. I'm going to jump a little bit forward. Okay. Because I don't give a shit about the rest of his blah-bitty-blah. Yeah, well he's president. Fights in the Indian presidential ship. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. New York State is prospering. The state of New York is kicking ass because they had opened up the Erie Canal 10 years before and so all this trade's coming through and it's helping the whole state and it's fucking awesome up in that shit, isn't it? All right. Is that what they were saying? Yeah. They were so ahead of their time. And so Colonel Thomas S. Meacham of Sandy Creek, New York. Sure. Who's a dairy farmer. Sure. Wanted to show the president and others just how awesome the great state of New York was. Okay. I like where we're headed. I do. I got a good feeling about this one. You know how this podcast takes a left turn sometimes? Yeah. I feel like we're in... You just opened a canal to a new story. So he thought, why not send some cheese? Okay. It's called local pride, man. Sure, yeah. You make cheese. Send him some. Send the president some cheese. You go, this is what we're doing up here, bitch. Hey, man. This is cheese. What you doing down there in Washington? We're making fucking cheese. Hey, you making cheese there? No way. You are? You're making cheese like this? This is the cheese. New York cheddar. Come get the New York cheddar, Mr. President. I don't know who they are, these people. He made a cheese wheel that was four feet in diameter. Oh my God. And two feet thick. Jesus Christ. And weighed 1,400 pounds. What the fuck? Wow. 1,400 pounds. If you're from another country, that's 635 kilograms. That's 100 stone. No, it's a lot of stone. It's a thousand stone. It's a lot of stone. Is it a thousand stone? Wait, 1,400 yet? It's a thousand stone. Hey, do you convention in your head there? Yeah, a thousand stone that is. There you go. Also, I like that English people still use stones. Every time I go there, I'm like- I know. They're all like, what's with your antiquated system? Okay, stone. Yeah. How many pebbles do you want to eat of food? That's a lot of fucking cheese. That's a shitload of cheese. Okay, I love- I can't wait. Now if it had been Jackson making the cheese, he would have made three of those and put on a fucking stagecoach and driven that shit down. Yeah, he would have been like, and when we get hungry, we can eat the tires. Pull over, driver. I'm going to have a bite of one of the tires. All right, old bag of marbles. December 10th, 1835, the New Hampshire Sentinel. Mammoth cheese. Mr. T.S. Mitchum exhibited in this city on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week a cheese weighing 1,400 pounds made from the milk of 150 cows for four days at his dairy in Sandy Creek Oswego County. It bore the following inscription, to Andrew Jackson, president of the United States. I just love that. Graved in cheese. Graved in cheese. First of all, he got 150 cows over four days. So great use of your time. He made a big thing of cheese and he was like, tink, tink, tink, tink. Hold on a minute. Yeah, the cows are like, can we get some water? No. No, keep milking. The president needs to have this big cheese. We've got to let him know what's happening here. He also exhibited a national belt, presented a fine bust of the president. Okay. A bust of the president. Yes. Out of cheese. Of cheese on his belt. Cheat. No, bust. Oh, I thought you said on his belt. No, no, no, a bust. Like a little statue. He just had a bust. Yes, yes, yes. He made a cheese statue of the president. This guy. He was a scribe in Wisconsin. And that was surrounded by a chain of 24 states united and linked together. The belt is intended for a wrapper to the mammoth cheese when presented to the president. So he made this big belt to wrap around the cheese and on it it said, the union it must be preserved. So very persuasive. So he went full cheese. Very persuasive. At what point are you, at what point when you're making this thing and putting the belt on, are you going, is this so, is this too much? I mean, imagine the people like, like his wife was probably there just like, my gosh. So how big do you think it needs to be that big? Of course it might need to be bigger, honey. God, it's for the president. And now to put a very serious inscription on this huge ball of old milk. And that for centuries, the Americans will point at it and go, it says it must be united. The cheese will lead the people, my dear. The union should be preserved much like the cheese. Hey, should we get, should we get, meet him out of here? I'll stay, I love him, I'm having quite a good time. If you throw me out, you throw out the cheese and the cheese is patriotic. Jesus Christ, he's fucking the cheese. Get off of there, meet him. Patriotic cheese, patriotic cheese. Sometimes I feel like you're the only one who gets me 1400 pound block of cheese. Meet him? Yes, hello? I did nothing with the cheese. Nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing. Don't turn that light on. Don't light that light. It wasn't the only cheese wheel. The cheese is actually the biggest wheel of a larger collection of 10 cheeses that appeared at the 1835 patriotic celebration in Oswego, New York. So other dudes, it wasn't just him. It was like they had a town meeting and they went, how can we show those big wigs down in Washington what we're made of? And someone went, well, we do make cheese. Oh, Larry. Yes. We'll only make cheese from now on and send it to Washington. Everybody for it? Milk your cows. Yay. Everyone for it. Of course we are. Any questions? Good. I didn't think so. Okay. Meet him also himself made five other cheeses, cheese wheels, each about half the size of the presidential cheese. The presidential cheese? He had five other 700 pound cheese wheels. You know, in these smaller ones, I just keep around for company. This is for Bridget. So this guy is obviously completely insane. He's out of his mind and got a lot of cheese. So the other cheeses were intended for Martin Van Buren, a New Yorker who is serving as vice president. You helped us with this. William Marcy, the governor of New York. Daniel Webster, the famous orator and politician, the US Congress. A whole congressional body gets one. And then there's another one for Martin Van Buren. Martin Van Buren is like, well, I probably can't finish it if Congress can. Oh, you'll eat it. I don't think you're going to eat it. You're hurting my hand. And also the state legislature, the legislator of the state of New York. So after all the locals up in Swiga, I think it's called, got a good look at the cheese and felt themselves just as well with national pride. Wow. We did this as a nation. Holy shit. Then the cheese went on a tour. Oh my. What the fuck? You've seen him in Washington, D.C. Ladies and gentlemen, give it up for the big block of cheese. So he transported the cheese with great flair, which that's what it said. Think how hard it is to glug 1400. How else are you transporting it without great flair? It's fucking. Yeah. I mean, really six things of giant cheese. What are you going to do? Anybody around is like, oh, remember when they took the space shuttle through L.A. on the streets to the museum? It's totally that. Oh my God. Look at it. Honey, come outside. Quick. The cheese. What you should do in this case is you should do it in the dark of night. Oh, yeah. Well, yeah, this should never have happened. He should have been killed in the dark of night the second he was like, get 150 cattle together. We're going to milk him for four days straight for national pride, dummy. No, I wasn't hit on the head. Why do you? I mean, I've fallen a number of times. Why? Through some towns, the cheese is reparated on a wagon decorated with flags. So fucking crazy. You were like money. Yeah, totally. Yeah. In New York, when they arrived in New York City, the cheeses were displayed to curious crowds at the Masonic Hall. Oh my God. Daniel Webster. Happened to be passing through the city and he cheerfully accepted his great cheese for me, Jim. Oh, now he's passing through. Yeah. Now, you know, when you go on a gig and someone gives you something, you're like, how the fuck can I put this? Oh, it's I don't know. This is a barometer. Yeah. Yeah, that's great. I'm going to put this in my suitcase. You just have it on your lap for the whole flight like a crazy man. Okay. So this guy got a 700 pound wheel of cheese was like, okay, thanks, man. Perfect. I guess I'll just, you know, in this day and age without cars, this is awesome. Let me think of what I should. Oh, hey, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to invent the engine. This is perfect. I'm just thinking, how can I complicate everything? That's great. My wife's going to be happy too. She's been complaining that I don't have 700 pounds of any food in the house. So this is nice to go home with. By the way, I live very far from here and this is 700 pounds of something that's not buoyant. Oh, thank God. It's really heavy. That's terrific. Oh, good. Oh, it's kind of smelling a little funky. It's a good footy cheese. That's good. The White House cheese was then put on a schooner. The White House cheese was then put on a schooner and shipped to Washington. So they put the fucker on a boat in New York Harbor and they shipped it to Washington. The cheese was presented to President Andrew Jackson on New Year's Day 1836. And someone finished it a month and a half ago. Sir, yes, there is at the door, there's a giant wheel of cheese. Excuse me. There's a wheel of cheese. I'm not sure I follow. Sir? Yes, outside of the room. A citizen has brought you a wheel of cheese. Good evening, Mr. President. I bring to you, remember your New Year's resolution, to eat a pound of cheese every day. Well, let me kick you off. How about 140 days? How about 140 days? I'm sorry, 1,400 days. Whatever it is. I can't count. You'll be dying. I'm so cheese delirious. I've lost the ability to do math. You will not be having any movements. So he accepted the cheese and issued a letter of thanks because what else are you going to do? Because everyone's like, well, he made that cheese. They don't write letters of fuck you. And he's already probably heard about it coming down with all the fans there. And he's like, Jesus, what's happening? So he knew about it and they were like, well, I'm going to eat a pound of cheese every day. And he's like, well, I'm going to eat a pound of cheese every day. And he's like, well, I'm going to eat a pound of cheese every day. And he's like, well, I'm going to eat a pound of cheese every day. And he's like, well, I'm going to eat a pound of cheese every day. And he's like, well, I'm going to eat a pound of cheese every day. And they were like, well, I'm going to eat a pound of cheese every day. good one too. In the state of New York who engaged in the labor of dairy. Well done dairy farmers. Boy, you really fucking showed me. Yeah. And then he turned around and he went into the White House and he yelled, what the fuck? Yeah, yeah, he absolutely did. And then he like went into the room with a 700 pound wheel of cheese and was like, why? It's 1400. Right. Can you think of anything worse than uninvited cheese? Actually, I think that's why they invented the Oval Office. Oh my God. He was a fucking throw that block of dumb shit. Yeah. So he had 1400 pounds of cheese. Lucky girl. He gave out giant chunks of cheese to all his friends. I mean. Giant chunks of cheese to all his friends, but then it turned out it was still a shitload of cheese. Oh yeah. So he gave all the cheese to everyone he knew who would take it. It's like Brewster's millions of cheese. I'm sure for like a while everyone's like, no, I'm good. I'm good. You sure? Did you eat the last? Shake it and guess what I've given you on your birthday. Let me guess, Andrew. Fucking cheese, right? It's always fucking cheese. So the cheese sat there for over a year. The smell must have been hypnotic in the White House hallway. I mean in the White House cheese. You had four years ago people could come in and say anything and now you're like, we saw that and now I live with cheese. So then remember Washington is hot and humid in the summer. It's not a good place to store cheese in a room. It's a great place in the winter to just throw down some cheese in a room. But in the summer, it's not so good. I mean, the mice must have just been like, buddy, you're going to think I'm fucking out of my mind and lying to you, but I ain't. Let's get the fuck out of New York. Let's get the fuck out of New York. Come on. We're leaving New York. You're not going to go to the goddamn White House. I can't believe what's happening. I mean, I don't I'll tell you on the way. It's mouse happening. Washingtonians could smell the cheese from several blocks around the White House. Wow. But if you think about it, if you think about like if you come across like a dead animal or something, you can smell it from so far away. Now this is imagine a dead whale. This is a thousand pound block of cheese. So the whole fucking city stinks. I mean, it's almost a ton of cheese. But what about the crazy fucker living in the house? So at this president? Yeah. But at this point, I think that he's probably like mourning his wife and he's just shuffling around a robe. You know, when you get really depressed and you don't clean anything up. Yeah. So he's just the maid was probably just like, can I throw it out? He's like, no, leave the cheese. Don't don't touch it. Don't don't even look at it. Don't even open that room anymore. I've never got to see it. Leave I'm marrying the cheese. Andrew, can we turn on some lights? Okay. I noticed you put a suit on the cheese. It was dubbed an evil smelling horror by the people that live. He was like, someone say horror. Who said horror horror? I'm gonna have to duel a man. I'll do all the cheese. He didn't want to throw out the G because it was a gift. I mean, that is a very nice man. Right? That's for a man who's taken a lot of lives. See his heart where like he was taking care of the soldiers on the way home. It's the same thing with the cheese. He's like, these farmers gave me this. I have to respect the cheese. I don't want to hurt their feelings. And by the way, if we try to throw it out, everyone will know. Right. Can't just put it for curbside pickup. No, you can't. No, that's the thing about the cheese. You can't throw out the cheese because everyone's like, then he loses the popular vote in New York. Yeah. Yeah. So for election for political reasons, he has to hang on to the cheese. It's fucking crazy. So the whole the whole fucking town rakes of cheese. So after so he's been in the White House for eight years now. The cheese has been there for about a year and a half. The sitting cheese. So he's leaving. So now he's the big cheese is the and he's leaving the White House. He's done. He's lost an election. The next guy's coming in. Who is it? It's it's not Van Buren. It is Van Buren. Van Buren is the next guy. So Van Buren, who also was given 700 pounds worth of cheese. Correct. So I'll let you tell them because in my best case scenario, it moves a man with 700 pounds more cheese. So like, okay, he's like, okay, then just bring in my cheese. They're like, what? God, there's what are here? Yeah, I have about a one about half that size. I need to get in here. Smells horrible. I haven't been able to eat it. So so he can't take the cheese with him. Right. So he's like, Well, I'm going to do what happened when I first got here and I'm gonna throw a fucking party. So he throws a cheese party. God, an old moldy cheese party. A reception is scheduled. And he invites everyone the same thing. Everyone's invited. He puts out an announcement in the Washington Globe. I intend to have eaten on the 22nd my large cheese presented by my friends of the state of New York. Can you be here and partake of the feast and any of your friends who may wish to accompany you it will be my last and only possible day. It's a cheese invite. This was in the paper in the Washington Globe. New York, the New York president is nearly four feet in diameter, two feet thick and weighs 1400 pounds. He was transported through the state of New York with a great parade to the place where it was shipped. He had read Washington reached Washington accompanied with a splendidly painted emblematic envelope. We understand the president designs to offer this great cheese which is finely flavored in in fine preservation to his fellow citizens who visit him on Wednesday next. The New York president will be served up in the hall of the president's mansion because that's where it's been for a year and a half because where the fuck else could it be? So on March 3, it went down around the 22nd, it went down and it was it was hoping shit was blowing up kids hanging off the roof. Everybody's like free cheese. I'm wasting our cheese. Now I cannot imagine the state of cheese like like if if you keep okay does cheese not go bad? Well, cheese is mold, right? So cheese is mold. Well, it is I mean, the way cheese was discovered was like curdled milk. So it's like milk. But that being said, I think it does go bad. I think it can go worse and become because I'll say this my grandmother who lived through the depression, when cheese would get mold on it, she would just cut it off. Yeah. And she get angry if you threw it out. Yes. So I assume this cheese was just this big mold, because it had to have mold. It had to have mold. I mean, this big moldy thing. And then they you would cut the mold off and just have at it. Just cut it. Yeah, it probably would. I mean, they were probably taking like some care of it too. But I mean, like what hosing it down? How are they taking care of it? Like the butler had to go wipe it down every day. He massages it and keeps an eye on it. Make sure the pores aren't I don't know. But yeah, Willie's coming in to wipe down the cheese. By the way, I think old Willie's just having sex with the cheese. We put a camera in there. Yeah, it would probably go bad. But it sounds like the culture of people were like, fuck it. Right? What we're learning is that Americans were horrible people. Oh, yeah. And what we're learning is we really haven't changed. We just get it delivered. We just get our moldy shit cheese delivered. It was very popular with the crowd. Some reports said it had a shockingly strong odor. It had to just be like a body. So it's just a bunch of Americans crowded around the White House getting like to must have been like, Did you get any in the back like just taking chunks of cheese and passing it back? It smells and tastes bad. It's not as bad back here. I have totally this story has made me totally rethink cheese. I don't want crazy. No, it's like thing to have happen. Not a movie. How have we never heard about this? I don't know how we've never heard. This is the craziest thing that has ever happened in the White House. Oh, I mean, by far since a cigar went in an intern's vagina. There's this and that. Oh, no. Mad Max. It just the contact just came in to get some get some of his shit. Yeah, just these just two dudes sitting in a garage talking in a microphone. It's like that. Those are the guys that are paying me. That's the guy who makes a living. That guy's that guy's making money. You know, you know what happens over this fucking guy's house that I'm working on? I'm fucking digging up the goddamn floor. You know what happens? He was buddy. They go and they play radio in the fucking garage. I'm dying of sweat. They're like 40 or some shit. I don't know. They're fucking old. It's not some fucking kid. I'm dying of sweat. And I'm sitting there and I'm ripping up this floor and I have to go in the garage real quick. Well, him and his little buddy are in there shouting about cheese all day. Okay. So you want to talk about what's fucked up? I'm working for the cheese shouter. I didn't move here for this. This is not what I want to do. That's why he just left. Fuck this. I'm done. He's texting your wife right now. Oh, fuck. Oh, that's weird. Yeah. That's like a ghost thing. Now. Now listen, my printer is just going on. You make it. You make it fun of the contractor. What if it just printed a picture of cheese? Well, stab my throat. Hey, I know he barks at you. Barking the printer. It's great. It's all great. You're really good. You're the best dog at saving people from printers that I've ever known. And what's ironic is the printer could still kick the shit out of this dog. Yeah. So the cheese was served and this is there arose an exceedingly strong smell so strong as to overpower a number of dandies and lackadaisical ladies. So they're saying that I think they're saying that gay dudes and ladies passed out. I was wondering real men got in there and ate that shit. Yeah. But I'm pretty sure the what paper is this? The the Portsmouth Journal of Politics and Literature a local paper up in Portsmouth basically said that feminine gentlemen and ladies couldn't handle dandies that couldn't handle the odor of the cheese. That's how they determined if you were gay. I understood back in the well, if anybody anybody who passed out near cheese was a homosexual. He likes to trot around with boys. Look at him. He's faced down. Can't handle the cheese. A Larry can't handle the cheese or the vagina. Larry looks like you're in for a buggering tonight. It's been a buggering to do with your old guy friends. Of course, the cheese had sat and so it had sat in this room hallway, whatever hallway for so long that it's aroma permeated the fixtures and the carpets and the drapes. So these people ate all the cheese. Yeah. So by the time the party was over, they had eaten all the over 1000 a pound. It's just America. All these stinking cheese. I mean, just dirty. Like he basically just he just basically said, Hey, all you dirty, gross fucks, hey, dogs, would eat this. Hey, dogs with human skin just come up here. And so all these just gross monsters came up and ate the cheese with their fucking hands. And it bullshit about there being free cheese here today. Or is that true? No, that's true. So there's excuse me coming through been wondering what that smell is. Oh, yeah. They want to get up here for a while. Guys left it in the hallway for about a year, year and a half. Good. Smart. Holy shit. Mark, that's how I like my cheese. You know what I do is I'll eat some of it and I'll put the rest in my pocket to see who's gay. So the next guy moves in and vampire and the whole place smells like cheese after he just put his 700 pounds of cheese to bed. Hold on. So this is written by former john Davis, his wife, Eliza in 1838. So it's a year later, okay. The White House has been put in order by its present occupant and vastly improved. Van Buren says he has had a hard task to get rid of the smell of cheese. And in the room where it was cut, he had to air the carpet for many, many days to take away the curtains and to paint and whitewash before he could get a victory over the smell. He has another cheese like that which General Jackson had cut and he says he does not know what to do with it. What a foolish thing for a man to have made such a present for him or anyone else. Okay. Here's the deal. Van Buren didn't have his cheese. Van Buren Van Buren had already finished his cheese. There wasn't any left that cheese. Andrew Jackson had gotten another 700 pounds of cheese and he stashed it in the White House and left it for Van Buren shot. Wait. Yes. So they were like, Oh, thank God that cheese has gone. They went down into a bathroom with it. Oh my God. What? Jaxon you rascal. He just did it as a goof just to be a fuck. Here's a gift. Yeah. Oh my God. Fucking hilarious. Best president ever. Best president in the history of the United States. Van Buren eventually gave in 1839, gave the 700 pound wheel of cheese away in a charity auction. So. Jaxon. Which is what that's what Andrew Jackson should have done in the first place, right? Yeah. He should have done a charity, but they just didn't think of it though. We ought to keep the cheese. What do we do at charity? I don't know. I don't think that'll work. It's a lot of cheese. We got to keep New York in our corner. I don't think you got to be pissed. But Van Buren could do it because he was from New York. Right. So it's easier for him to go, yeah, I'm going to give it away. Like a yay cheese. Andrew Jackson was like, mm hmm. Once more. Fuck you. Go to the boiler room bitch. Jackson died June 8th, 1945. So five, six years later at the age of 78 of chronic tuberculosis, dropsy and heart failure. I was hoping I'd be something to do with cheese. It would be great if there was some cheese tie in. I mean, yeah. I mean. Died of cheesy veins. I had always heard about the party and I've always been fascinated by the party. But then I was reading about the party and the bottom one he was like and later on he held the cheese. And I was like, what do you mean later on he held a cheese event? How is that not like the top page in every history book in the United States of America? Like when you go to school and elementary school, the first thing you should do is like, all right, open up your books to page one. All right. It says the cheese. This is pretty interesting guys. This is interesting as history gets for us here in the United States. I mean, can you imagine in today's climate if there were I mean, what the cheese gate, the amount of coverage you'd have over the White House cheese. Oh my God. Oh my God. Presidential cheese. What's going to happen with the cheese? Well, they did do some sort of Obama did have some sort of cheese event in in like honor of what had happened. Like they did. They did like a little make in fun of it thing. But Andrew Jackson challenged him to a duel right after. And then he got funny. Fuckface. Tomorrow, bitch. Hey, what'd you say about my cheese? What did you say about my cheese? Celebrating your cheese back? See you up back at noon. I think I have to do all Andrew Jackson's ghost tomorrow. You know what else he used to do during the duals is he would wear a large trench coat because he was a really skinny dude. So fat and then they'd shoot through the trench coat. Then he'd like throw it off and be like, ha, all right. Now to envy a throw. They don't call me throat cheese Jackson for nothing. I was going to ask why do they call you throw cheese? Jackson? There you go. Because I shoot people in the throat and I lived with cheese and my last name is Jackson. Yeah, that's me jingling like a spur. I'm full of bullets. A jingle jingle jingle jingle cheese jingle cheese is here. What are you guys gonna ask jingle cheese for this year? Seriously, in Europe, this would have become become like something like that. At that time, jingle cheese come through the toilet into the apartment or into the living facility. And if he leaves you cheese, you have a good year. And if he leaves you nothing, you get to have half your friends cheese. Did you say nothing? Whatever you heard. Just follow through with the plan. Oh, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Jingle cheese. I mean, what the fuck was wrong with people? From beginning to end, that story is so fucked up that that anyone thought they could give cheese and then someone kept the cheese. I would rather I would rather live in a day and age when you could go to the White House, tell the president to suck your dick freely and go there for a cheese party and have your president leave cheese behind. And live in the one now where I'm like, wait, they know where I'm going and staying because of my iPhone and they're using this information against me somehow. I'd rather just be like, the president's got a list with a ton of cheese, a metric ton of cheese. And he hid one. Going on a White House tour. Yeah. And this is the cheese. Everyone put your masks on now. We're going to ask you all to put your masks on. Well, the cheese wing, I guess it is now. Oh, yes. Well, I'm sorry if we didn't get the memo, Greg. I'll see you later. Goodbye. Cheese. We're such a fucked up country. It's been happening since the beginning. It's really something that needs to be known. I mean, what a nightmare. What a cheese nightmare. Gross people. Ah, cheese. Right. The last thing you could have around for I mean, besides meat. Well, yeah, I mean, there's there's better things to have around. Yeah, then cheese and cheese. I wonder what kind it was. It had to be a party sub is a 1400 pound party sub, sir. Enjoy it for years. Oh, God. Christ. Fuck me. But she could have been hard. The versatility of cheese. Yeah, you just basically eat it or put it on a cracker and that's it right now. So that's all we know how to do with it right now. So that's what we're doing. So it's really, really, really the worst. Unless you love cheese, which some of us used to. And then we had 1400 pounds of it dropped off. Cheese is the great. That is the biggest fuck you. Yeah. Yes. No, it's a present. It's a present that says go fuck yourself. Yeah, it's what I call food monkey paw. Oh, God. Uninvited cheese. Well, well, there you go. That's how Congress and the White House work. That's how they used to function. That's how that's how that's what we call cheese and.