 Yeah, that's on order. You can't do either. That is on NBC. Maybe if you combine them. Maybe if you combine them, it's legal. So that's our new theme song. I love it. Can't get it out of my head, honestly. I remember I'd asked people to come up with a theme song for the doll up a long time ago, and I feel like people were fucking with me. What, did people say they would? Some people sent some okay stuff, but yeah, some people sent stuff that was, I was just like, what are you doing? Are you mocking me? I was just like, are we in a fight? Are we having a fight? This episode of the doll up is brought to you by noise. There's a contractor here in the house and he is under the house and he is a bang, a bang, a bang. He is shirtless today. He hasn't been shirtless yet. I'm a big fan. Today he's shirtless. Is he ticklish? He's very tan. I don't know if he's ticklish. I haven't gotten down there, but there'll be some tickling later. Whoa. Dave, are you excited, bro? Are you excited? Yeah. May 14th is the next live virtual doll up. We'll be doing another doll up with looped live. It'll be a 6 PM Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual doll up. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of like media in them, videos and pictures. David does a very great job and they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade. Arby's, we've got the meats. No, no, no. Wrong copy, Dave. Wrong copy. This is for the, yeah, just stick to what we're doing. So May 14th looped live 6 PM Pacific time. Join us again for another live virtual doll up. We've got the meats. I had a sound bite for this. No, no, no. I had an actual thing on my phone that I should probably go grab. So Gareth. Yes, that's my name. Yes. Gareth. Yes. It is Gareth. Yes. T-H at the end, not Gary Gareth. Okay. So I'm here with Gary Rini. God damn it. Damn it. You had it. I'm Dave Anthony. I'm here with Gareth Rini. This is the doll up. It's a little, a doll up is like a little thing. It's a little tiny bit of history. It's a tiny taste. And every time someone says here I drew you a logo, it looks like a pile of shit. Dave, your appreciation for the fans. Well, no, but you can make a doll up look like a little doll up of whipped cream or you can make it look like a giant dump. And everybody makes it look like a giant dump. They're thinking of the dump look. And I don't really want a dump as my logo. But I appreciate the efforts. Yeah, clearly. Thank you. Yeah, that's right. A lobotomy. Sure. Is a psychosurgical procedure in which the connections of the prefrontal cortex and underlying structures are severed or the frontal cortex tissue is destroyed. It's not showing up on the sound, so we'll see if that actually shows up. But right now it sounds like he's under the house with like one of those, you know, when you go to the fair and you hit the way it goes up to the top. It sounds like he's missing the ding. It sounds like he's smashing the house with one of those. He's training fair in two weeks. When I win that fucking bear, I'm going to send this house up to the roof. What? Nothing. Or the frontal cortical tissue is destroyed, the theory being that this leads to the uncoupling of the brain's emotional centers and the seat of intellect. So it makes it makes someone like joyfully stupid. Yeah, that's the idea. Yeah, it makes you you remove you're like the good and the bad baby and the bath water or stuff bothered me. And now I'm like curtains. Hey, why did I end up in this psych ward anyway? You got to be shitting me. You guys come on fucking Fridays. You got a real we're gonna have to wait this out. Are you cool with that? Yeah. All right. How will? Oh, right. Yeah. So the gardeners came when there's usually come on Friday, Friday, but apparently they believe in the Fourth of July, which is nice. They've taken on the partying aspect of their new country. Yeah, fair idea. Yeah, I do it too. If I was down in Mexico, I would be like, sing, this means everything. The lobotomy was first performed on humans in the 1890s. Okay, so for I mean, for my fairly recent. No, that's not. Is that right? Yeah. So in my mind, that's just a great I just picture that as a beautiful surgical time in the 1890s. And then the person who's been lobotomized mind, they picture clouds. So this is so weird. In the 1930s, the procedure was pioneered at that time by a Portuguese neuropsychiatrist Antonio Moniz. He began performing lobotomies after hearing a speech by two Yale neurologists who had been performing the lobotomies on chimps. So you see the jump? Yeah. So he just he's really liked that speech. He was like, man, that was great. I love the monkeys after you cut their brain, they just lay there. Yeah, I know some people that I don't like. They like bananas and bark the same amount now since we lobotomize them. Well, listen, so this is from the the report. The chimpanzee went to the experimental cage, which is a cage where they like and fuck around with stuff like, you know, the usual procedure of baiting. The cup and lowering the screen was followed. If the animal made a mistake, it showed no evidence of emotional disturbance, but quietly awaited the loading of the cups for the next trial. It was if the animal had joined a quote happiness cult and had placed its burdens on the Lord. So what a bunch of bullshit. So like the yeah. So they so basically it was like a screaming monkey. Yeah. And and they were like, what if we cut its brain up? So they went in and they sliced some of the brain parts, disconnected some shit and then went. Look at how happy he is. He doesn't mind anymore. As if you haven't just scrambled his brain. Yeah. You know, we've done is we've removed that emotional part. No, you've taken most of his brain out. So he doesn't feel anymore. You separated his brain part so the brain doesn't work. Oh, look, he's fine when the basket spills. He just wants it filled up again. He's like, it's like he doesn't give a shit about anything. Why not? That's why. So after hearing the Yale neurologist speak, Moniz asked if the surgical procedure procedure would be beneficial for people with otherwise untreatable psychosis. The Yale researchers were shocked by the question. They were like, in the back, we're fucking up monkeys, dude. What do you what? What do you want to do? I think we can take this to the human level. Right, guys? Hello. Hello. Is this on? Is the mic not working? The mic is on, correct? They were like, yeah, we're talking about a monkey, bro. So together with a colleague, Alameda Lima, they operated on the first patient three months later. So they took three months and they went, let's fucking do this. Summer break. We got to do it. We got to do it. I mean, how long are we going to talk about this? How long are we going to talk about this? Literally months. Two of them. I want to get into a fucking brain. I can't wait to take that guy's brain out. So so he started doing lobotomies. In all, he did 50 lobotomies. A lot of brain. Oh, so not a lot like that. He used a special knife and he severed brain connections. So they would go into the frontal cortex and they then they sever it from the rest of the brain kind of. They keep it in. They just cut it. Yeah, they just cut. They just cut. It'd be like if they went into your leg and just cut the knee. Oh, cool. So then so the bottom half of your leg would look like you and then they were a lot of fun. Look at how much more he likes sitting. Oh my God. Do you see how his ankle is just so happy and blubbery? He loves sitting more than ever. Have you noticed that since we cut his tendon, he's just a big sitting guy. So so in some cases there were improvements in behavior. In others, there was no noticeable difference. What? No, that's the one that I can't even remotely understand. There were some people that they did lobotomies on and they were like, all right, thanks, Jim. I'll see you next week. I'm still kind of pissed about you doing that. Shit, it didn't work. The first one that happened with that, they're like, what the fuck's going on over here? And how do you feel when I poke you? Kind of angry. Don't do that, asshole. Jesus Christ. He's not like a monkey at all. Boy, we need to get the monkeys back in here. And in other cases, the symptom being treated became markedly worse. Oh, good. Can you imagine that? Good. OK, good. OK, so in other words, lobotomies are a real crap shoot. Yeah, it's like a brain crapshoot, brain roulette. Hey, you want to play a brain lottery? Hey, no, I like my brain. Later on, he received the Nobel Prize for Medicine for his innovations in neurosurgery. So he got a... Being lobotomies? Is that his main... He got the Nobel Prize for coming up with lobotomies that someone else was doing on monkeys. For taking an idea, he heard it as speech and doing it on humans. Yeah. Cool. So he... but he did advise extreme caution when using lobotomies and felt that it should only be used in cases where everything else had been tried and the person was basically a maniac. Yeah. I mean, these are mostly institutionalized people that are getting the procedure. Yeah. Dr. America. Oh, boy. Good God. Of course. Hey, who can make this worse? Oh, we do that with everything. Enter the big swinging dick with the small brain. Walter Freeman. I'm nervous. Dr. Walter Freeman. Freeman was born in a family of medical tradition. His grandfather, W.W. Keene. W.W. Keene is one of the best fucking names. W.W. Keene. I mean, he's so close to a website. It's amazing. Yeah. What do you sell shirts? Go to Keene.com. What the hell are you talking about, W.W.? He was... at the time, he was America's foremost surgeon. He was the top surgeon in America. And then Walter's father was also a well-known otolaryngologist. Oh, yeah. The guy who created lung cars. Otolaryngologist. Otolaryngologist. Otolaryngologist. Otolaryngologist. Otolaryngologist. O-G-I-S. Do you know what that is? Yeah, lung cars. What? Lung cars. Okay. Are you saying words? Yeah. Never mind. Lung? Yeah, it sounded like lung cars. I think you're doing death to hear the great timing the first two times. So now it sounds crazy. I agree. Yeah, the guy who came up with lung cars. Yeah, the guy who made lung cars. I'd say your nose and throat guy, but back then they called him some giant name that made everyone piss and finally everyone just went, what about your name? Your nose and throat. What about you call yourself that? Well, fine. You want to take the shine off it. Yeah, ear, nose, throat doctor. So that's what we called him. So congratulations to your big bullshit word. I mean, seriously. Yeah. Let's take it down a notch. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. So Walter graduated second in his class. So he's the third generation doctor. Second in his class in medical school, won the prize for the best undergraduate research published in the archives of neurology and psychiatry. So he's a fucking coming out hot shot. A hot shot. Yeah. Hot shit shot. Yeah, he's a shit shot. Okay. Now, mental institutions back then very different than now. How so, Dave? Well, they were more understanding, right? Be straight with me. Everyone had their own room. Everyone. It was more about talking than drugs, right, Dave? Yes, that's exactly right. No chains on the wall. Nothing. Overcrowding was common. Hospitals struggled financially. They didn't have enough money. They were understaffed. They were a nightmare. We'll be there soon. I hope so. And then they had no idea to treat the people. So it was just a bunch of crazy people bouncing off walls. Yeah, you just picture one flu of the cuccos nest. So maybe worse. Worse, much worse. Not as funny. No chief. The situation was made even worse after World War II when all the vets came rolling back and they had all their problems. And then in 1946, Life magazine went out and did like a picture, what do you call it, a pictorial essay sort of thing. And the photos look like concentration camps. Some of them, some of the hospitals just look horrifying. So people were pretty freaked out and they were looking for an answer. Okay. Oh boy. Okay. So lobotomy was the perfect way to fix this because it took crazy people and made them seem like they were not crazy. Yes, they've made them lap dogs. It's like, yeah, it's like, it's like cut your dog's balls off or, or head. Yeah. But it did help some patients. Sure. So why do you have this? It's a grim. It helps some patients. I'm always thinking, well, yeah, you cut some guy who was like, and now he's not doing that. The thing is you can't now ask the person who had the procedure if it did anything. Hey, do you feel better? No, some people talk and stuff. That's what's the crazy about this is reading about finding out about this is that some people then continue on with their lives and didn't have the reaction you would think, which is like from one flu of a cuckoo's nest. Some people just kept going. I don't know how you can have your brain cut. It suffered. Well, why does it work on some and it just doesn't maybe they didn't do a good job or they just didn't sever something. I mean, there is like one real sweetheart who's like, I can't do this. And every time you'd be like, I snipped it. So I'm up. There's just this lobotomy doctor with a heart of gold that we don't know about. Everybody happy. So while Walter Freeman was at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, you know, that's where there were crazy people. He did not believe in psychotherapy. So Freud was bullshit. Sure. He believed that it was a physical condition that was causing these problems. Right. Yeah. So he didn't want to be like shame for these people. Well, that's it. It's up being true in the end. Yeah, I guess later. So he was super into research that showed that the behavior that was changed by encephalitis and syphilis was a physical connection. So people who Al Capone, Al Capone was had syphilis his whole life because he hated shots. Really? Yes. So he eventually went crazy. He shot so many people. But he eventually went crazy in Alcatraz because of syphilis. He has like third stage syphilis where he was just like. And so that they knew was that the brain was affected by a physical condition. Right. So he believed in that research. And then he figured all the other things were the same. He believed that lobotomy is work because the procedure severed connections between the frontal lobes of the brains and the thalamus, which is seats human emotion is what they believe. So they've all this comes down to is that they think like you're just too emotional. Yeah, that's well. Yeah. If you're emotional, you're crazy. So let's remove emotion. Hey, you know the emotion part of you. We're going to get rid of that. Does that sound good? What's the side effect? Most of your brain and thoughts are gone. You'll be easy to deal with, though. OK, so here's a little bit of a hiccup in the plan. OK. Walter Freeman isn't a surgeon. OK. So he couldn't legally start digging around in people's brains. Right. OK. So he hooked up with a surgeon named James Watts. Sure. Doc Watts. Team Freeman Watts. Yeah. And together they started doing lobotomies. Oh, cool. Good cop, bad cop and them. But actually, first they started working on dead guys in the morgue. They practiced on dead guys in the morgue, which to me is a weird thing. What time you want to meet? Nine, nine thirty? When do you want to start? It's also like, so you go, you cut into some guy's head and you go, yeah, do you feel any different? Are you still, are you dead still? How do you feel? OK. Good practice. I think this guy's emotions would be totally different if he was breathing. This guy's the same. He's the same. This guy, we did this to this, look at him. Look at him. Look at this guy. I want all the guys to look at their lobotomies. Look his tongue out. Look his tongue out. He's cute. He's got crosses on his eyes. Oh my God, he's adorable. So before this time, they weren't actually called lobotomies. They didn't have a word for it. So these guys actually came up with the word lobotomy. They were cutting up, they're cutting up corpses and they're like, what do we call it? I don't know. It's called like brain mixing or some shit. I don't know what it's called. So wait, what is, what is lobotomy? Does it do we know? I mean, it's, what is it? Lobe? Yeah, probably lobe, like the frontal lobe. Right. And you're cutting the lobotomy out. It'd be great to have like the political shine that we have on things now. Oh yeah. On that. Oh yeah. Be like, emotional sustainability. Some good old bullshit. Do you want some emotional sustainability? Well, that sounds great. What is it? It does sound good. I'm going to cut it up. I'm going to cut it up. I'm going to cut it up. I'm going to cut it up. I'm going to cut it up. I'm going to cut it up. I'm going to cut it up. I'm going to cut it up. I'm going to cut into your head. Ow! You're better now. So their method was known as the precision method. So they created their own method that the other guys weren't doing. Right. So they would insert a blunt spatula. Already a weird beginning to the precision method. I know, blunt. Through the holes in both sides of the skull, so the cut holes in the skull, put this thing through, the instrument was moved up and down to sever the thalamo, god damn it. Thalamo cortical fibers. And then boom. And then what do they do with the holes? Cock them? Yeah, well then they put a little cocking in there. I guess, yeah, if you cut up, the skull doesn't grow back, right? I don't think the bone does. No, the bone doesn't grow back. So you would, I guess, yeah, plug it up with some putty or something. Oh my god. Put a little putty in there. Maybe a coin. Hey, doctor, are you done with that gum? Can you make it the exact size of a quarter? And then we can just go ahead and pop that in there. You're doctors. Well, I'm not. I can't cut. I'm more of an octor. So after they fucked up the dead people in the morgue for a while, they did their first patient, Ms. Hammett, 63, who suffered from agitated depression and sleeplessness. Well, time to cut her brain. Well, fucking cut that shit up. You know, you know how you're sad and you can't sleep? Cut the cord. Cut that shit. She made six holes into the top of her skull and splicey splice, slice, slice, slice six. I don't know why they did six, but apparently they need six. She must look great afterwards. According according to Freeman, Hammett emerged transformed, able to go to the theater and really enjoy the play. OK, so we know what that means, right? Yeah. She just sat there. She liked lights. Yeah. She just they just brought her and she was like, yeah. Yeah. Shocking. You drill six holes into someone's head. They like musicals. They claim that 52 percent of their six hundred and twenty three first lobotomies yielded good results. So 48 percent had bad. I mean, if you're negative. And I am. I'm going to be glass half empty with brains. Well then, OK, Mr. Yes. Nay, nay, nay. 52 percent are loving it. We're coming out on top. By a margin of two. But what they didn't do was offer like a clinical yardstick for what was considered an improvement. Oh, good. So they were like, yep, better than before. Don't look. Exactly. Stay out of that room. Well, what was she like before? Out of that room. Please don't even look through that glass. She is better now. Yes. What would you love the musical? What was she like before? Bitch, a huge bitch, an awful bitch. Six holes in her head. She's happy. Well, she's been staring at that chair for an hour. It's a great chair. Get out of here and stop looking through that window. That's exactly what it was. So yeah. So over time, over time, sure. Over all the lobotomies are performed over all the years, a third of people are improved, a third of the same and a third worse off. So those are great. That's a terrible procedure. Those are great numbers. That is not good enough for this to be happening. No. Did you hear the part? Yeah. So a third of them were improved? Yes. And two thirds were unchanged or worse off. Oh my God. You're such a negative Nancy. I'm going to be negative. These are human brains. I can't even believe that you don't want 33% of people to get better. You know how I can get you to believe that? Yeah. Let me drill six holes in your head and I can just cut this part and you'll just buy all my bullshit. The cool thing about the third worse off is that 15% of them were dead. Oh, Christ. So that's, that's, okay. That's a negative. Although I will say they weren't as emotionally distressed after. You could put them in the top category. This one's not screaming. Hey, this one's happy at the musical too. Others around him mildly disturbed, but he's loving it. That's why musicals are so popular. They were just weekend at Bernie's, the fucking crowd. Bunch of corpses. And with the surgery, you get to go see My Fair Lady. Wait, there's more. If you sign up for a lobotomy right now, you'll get two free tickets, two free tickets to My Fair Lady. Okay. But at that point they said it was only 3% that were dying, but. They're fudging the numbers. Yeah, they're fudging the numbers because later it came out that 15% is how many die when you do lobotomies. Yeah, sure. Great procedure. But here's the thing. Hospitals were all down for it. I bet. Because, because people were running around screaming. Better work environment. They were tackling people in the hallways. They were tackling people in the hallways. They were fucking putting straight jackets on people. They were chaining them to walls. They were chaining them to their bed. Now they're just like, oh, you're just going to sit in that chair? Yeah. And I wipe your mouth every couple hours? Boy, somebody's really had a 180. You've gone from worst to first, my man. My drooling little amigo. Oh, you did a boom boom in your pants. Oh, that's fine. I'll leave it. You won't care. You have no idea. You're always happy. So, I'm going to go ahead and say that I'm going to go ahead and say that I'm going to go ahead and say that I'm going to go ahead and say that I'm going to go ahead and say that I'm going to go ahead and say that Christ has made the best of you all They're all for it. So, they just basically want everyone to shut up, right? That was the basic law. So Freeman is now unhappy with the procedure. Oh, somebody needs to get it. Because it's taking too long to do. Wow. What a cunt. that a guy who wasn't trained as a surgeon would be like oh this fucking two hours getting it all right drilling cutting the right place blabity blabity not being able to jab around and hit the golf course let's just go through the eye with a spoon just start bashing them with hammers be in and out in 45 is anybody else bored right now show of hands who thinks this just sucks we can be out here on the golf course just saying a cold frosty beer doesn't sound too bad either hear me out okay so he you've got something good well you've got something he was like I wish there was a hole that would allow easier access to the brain oh fuck me so he developed a quicker method Oh Christ the so-called ice pick lobotomy it's just which he performed for the first time on January 17th 1945 so that's that's pretty like that's the 40s well the world was so distracted at this point that I guess you could just get away with this okay what a crank this up what is this is a son my father went over and tickle first one ribs so on over and tickled the ribs of the other one she was paralyzed on the left side okay so you look very upset I mean what do you think I'm supposed to look like right now happy I mean first of all we can lose the jazzy music I doubt that's a little bit but you know what jazz is bad at bad at bat jazz isn't great to begin with so maybe you got to put it to something that's terrible that is terrible he didn't tell what's that he wait he just has hiding his ice pick method yes so this guy's a fucking psycho this is not not a good this is not somebody we should even be talking about like talking about this like this criminal the psychotic criminal yeah I get so much better better means worse it's always a good side when you share an office with a guy and one guy's a surgeon and the other guy's not and the non-surgeon starts performing surgeries and hiding them from the surgeon that's a good yeah that's a good that's the secret that's better it's quicker hey what's with that ice pick man man nothing okay so let's just keep hey you know I went in there and you can't move on the left side let's keep this on the deal Walter Freeman's son in an interview said we didn't have a refrigerator we had an ice box and the first instruments came out of the kitchen drawer and they worked perfectly so he literally opened a drawer and went holy shit this ice pick would work awesome and then did it did it also he couldn't afford a refrigerator yeah I don't know if that's a lot of red but no you must they probably did if they had a fucking ice pick they must have had refrigerators in 1945 I don't know yeah they had to have had a fridge they were past ice boxes so he should have had a refrigerator if he was really doing well so he just there was a person who he was like well you're just gonna we're gonna try the ice pick on you yeah basically yeah okay so yeah he basically just said let's I'm gonna try this new thing and he just went and did it and then so what he does is he just puts the ice pick in there fuck goes into the corner of the eye near your nose and does a little wiggly wiggly and fucking cuts your brain well you said cuts his brain I said I say it does a wiggly sorry doesn't wiggly wiggly yeah okay well I think you're being a little negative so he found he could there's what it is he found he can insert an ice pick above each eye of a patient with only a local anesthetic so the person's okay what he does was he he gives them electroshock therapy and then so then they're kind of like good and then he puts the ice pick in their eye and does that's the end that's the local anesthetic yeah is electroshock therapy because that's not what we call an anesthetic I mean he might have had another anesthetic but he was using electroshock therapy first so that they would be calm just no listen if they had an anesthetic there's no need for the electroshock there okay look if you are even if you're on if you if you're given a local anesthetic that means you're still awake and if someone comes near your eye even if you have a local anesthetic you're gonna be like yeah they're like well how about if we just charge you through it with electricity I'll be like I'll just breathe deep while you go through my eyeballs I guess okay this is gonna hurt so much not like a little no a fucking you're gonna feel a huge pinch in your brain you're gonna what's gonna happen is I'm gonna put this in you're gonna it's really gonna hurt and you're gonna scream and then you're gonna go so the last thing you're gonna feel ever is intense horror fear and pain then gone and then we're gonna go see my fair lady so he does look on anesthetic he he would drive the ice pick through the bone near the eye and tap it with a mallet a mallet and then he swished the pick back and forth like a windshield wiper oh and everybody's good so his new technique could be formed in ten minutes oh bada boom let's get this shit started we're on a fucking roll baby under 10 the bottom is eight bucks each get him in here to line them up come on down that's crazy now remember this is in the time when Ford in the assembly line that kind of shit was the great American thing so he basically took the culture of America and applied it to surgery oh boy aren't we putting a little shine on it basically he was the Ford of brain mutilation okay now here's the cool thing what's the cool thing because because he could use electroshock he didn't have to do it in a clinical setting so he didn't have to go to a hospital to do I'm really excited for where he's doing it so so he started doing him in their office in their DC just like come on in here lay down on the table or whatever so it's the desk the desk you know whatever's flat the floor okay sure this is the right way to just get on the get on the table you're not gonna care about it in three two snip who am I sorry I didn't do the operation yet but you know what I'm talking about so one day Watts walks into the office to find Freeman cramming an ice pick into someone's eye socket and he was like what the fuck are you doing what are we doing for lunch so yeah he was like completely flipped out and he ended their relationship right there he's like you're a fucking madman yeah this is not how we do things okay I'm a surgeon remember the whole studying thing to be a surgeon I did you're a crazy person okay I'm on his side Freeman was like you gotta be shitting me this is so fast it's fucking awesome look at this guy he's stupid as he can be it's perfect no Freeman my god I basically turn this guy into an apple it's great wait that's not an ice pick ten minutes okay seriously time me time me I'm not gonna time time to get the secretary no good game get this get Barbara in here I'll go to her I should not know about this nobody should know about stopwatch you're just one of those sand things it's the 40s yeah I don't think we have a stopwatch yet ice from the fridge I could do these at Denny's now never in my van let's make it happen a mobile lobotomy unit come on come on well then you don't have to book mobiles oh god yeah good good that'll be fine so so yeah so he is so things are good things are going good well he's lost his so he's lost his surgical partner right so no I wouldn't even say his surgical partner because he's not a surgeon but he's lost the guy that does the surgery he's lost the surgeon okay fair enough so after Watts ended the partnership he shut down the office after he had his little petite mall right so Freeman was like well I'm not stopping this shit and he took it on the road so he bought a van I mean this weren't we just doing a hypothetical joke about him being in a van doing this shit you got a van lobotomobile yeah boy he I wish I was kidding he called it lobotomobile shut up he did he called it lobotomobile lobotomobile yeah it's unbelievable how the fuck are these things slipping through the fucking crack I hope it had like it like a like an ice cream oh yeah like just alright kids what do you guys want I want an ice cream sandwich and then it all right who's next so he would pull up to say in asylums and and people would fucking line up for lobotomies people being the patients the patients I don't understand how they why was they so the lobotomy is it because they don't know that there's a huge downside yet and that they write right it's because everyone's just like this looks great it's because it's called a lobotomobile it sounds fun oh yeah he's on his horn and wearing a fun hat done 19 to myself it's great glitter glitter you're gonna love this one it's over glitter so yeah so it's just so he's cruising on the country he's stopping off in hospitals to perform the operation the patients are lining up people thought it would help right because they're all patients the word is that it helps doctors were all for it so that's the big thing the reason people are lining up is because the doctors are like this is gonna be awesome because you'll stop punching me yeah at the hospital so nice doctors so could you imagine being in the back on the lobotomy line you're like oh god I hope I hope I get there in time oh my god I just want to get the bottom I get here oh no what do you mean I can't get a little body tonight god damn it all this thinking driving me crazy one year he went back and forth across the United States 11 times hitting up all these insane asylums he could what he belongs in one I mean he was also flamboyant self advertising and grandiose. Man, I know we say this every dollar, but there's just such a movie here. Oh my god. So he started getting like all show money. Like you turned into like the lib barachi of the box. Great. To mix things up. He would perform the bottom is right handed and then left handed. Now and sometimes two hands at once. Now so he would put the bar to top Christmas cocktail. Yeah, he's slinging them. Lobotomies and dreams. So so he's right handed and he's like, look, I can do left handed and sometimes he put ice picks in both heads and then bang them at the same time. Swish him around. Hey, holy shit. That one's paralyzed. Both are dead. Oh no, that didn't work out. Probably should just stick with my good hand. So this was not like in front of people that he was. Okay, yeah. This is like a spectacle, like a show. He's like lobotomizing people in front of people and he's using his two hands and he's showing off and he's got flair showing off for the crowd. He's like a magician at this point. He's like fucking David Copperfield. One trick is cutting brains and it sometimes doesn't have a to die. To die. We got one to die. What the fuck? He would use ordinary carpenters mallets instead of surgical hammers. Oh good for hygiene. crowds would show up. The press would show up and he always played for the crowd instead of the formal approval of his colleagues. Any requests? Can you bang the ice pick with your forehead? Oh, I don't want to lobotomize myself. Nice try, sir. Wham. Wham. You'd see him with like four patients left. He just runs down the line. All right. You have a stairway to heaven you guys. This was the dollar. Oh fuck. Horrible. Once he killed the patient, when he carelessly stepped back to pose for a photograph during the operation. Oh my god. Hey, yo camera. By the way, did a little smile came back. This is not this is not a iPhone cameras either. It's a good delay in the posing. The big flash. Yeah, don't move. Oh god, it's all in her brain. She'll be fine. How do I look? He let his ice pick slip too deep into the patient's brain. And he's like, so he drove an ice pick through a human's brain. Yeah, but someone was taking a photo. So he had to see you got a photo. He had to turn and pose. Yeah. And then he was like, oh, yeah, shit. Yeah. Can held up his Twitter handle on a sign. You know, can we do another photo where I don't kill the guy? Yeah, we'll get another guy. We've got I would like to do a different photo. Sure. We'll do one more. Not killing the guy. Great. Okay. It could be natural to you don't need to pose. No, I think I should have my I think I should be doing Okay, okay. And I also need to look at the camera. Okay, I need to make eye contact. It's really good stuff we're doing here. Beautiful eyes and I think I think my eyes would be wasted if they're looking at the surgery. Yeah, yeah, that man's dead. He's better. Okay, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool. Driving from town to town. Looking for people to lobotomize in the lobotomobile was what he called the head and shoulder hunt. This guy is fucking not a good man. Monster. He's an absolute monster. He would have been perfect with the Nazis. He's like, Absolutely. Yeah. He claimed that time is happening around World War Two. Yeah, this is 1945. This is right. That's doing this. He's doing this as soldiers. He was just so desensitized. People are so fucking this like, I don't I can't I can't give he started doing it before the war. He was this isn't like it. I just can't imagine that. He claimed that time passed more swiftly when he was holding head and shoulder hunting. So it's so boring when I'm driving around the national parks. If I got to drive all day and see like a buffalo or whatever natural stuff, I just boring compared to when I can just have an ice picket of someone's head. He really is saying that. Yeah, it passes the time for me. It makes the days fly by for me. You know, it just makes a day just just fly by is when I can just put an ice picket like nine guys had a great I was swamped. I had to ice pick 30 brains. Not boring though. They would buy like that. We should lobotomize you know, I was just a sneeze. I don't think so. No, no, I'm fine. So he started having his assistants time him to see if he could break his lobotomy speed records. I know that you want me to say something. I'm not going to tell you how crazy that is. And Reggie Reggie. Tap tap tap tap tap tap tap tap tap tap tap tap tap tap tap. Swish swish swish. Boom. Boom. What was it? You did it. Yeah. 15 seconds. And this one actually only looks paralyzed. Oh, yeah, but we did it. Right? We did it. We killed it. Literally a man's dead. He's literally killed but dead man but timewise. He started performing the operation in a production line manner. What? You mean keep going. I'm sorry. Like like Ford's assembly line lined them up. Yes. What a fucking prick. He wants lobotomize 25 women in a single day. So they were just like, bring in the next one. Tap tap tap tap tap. Bring in the next one. Tap tap. So they're like they're like coming through on gurneys. Like the way in assembly line, a guy would just stand at the line and the car would come in front of him and he'd put like something on it. Bumper, bumper, bummer, bummer. So he's doing that with human beings and lobotomies. Oh, God. He performed up to 110 lobotomies a week. That's just crazy. Journalists were often present on his tours of hospitals so that his appearance would end up on the front page of the local newspaper. He was also featured in highly popular publications at the time such as Time magazine and Life magazine and often these news stories exaggerated the success of lobotomy in alleviating the symptoms. So everybody was in on it. The magazines were like, let's not okay, let's not take the picture of the dead one. Let's take a picture of the lady that's smiling. So they were all like, this is her before looking at her after. They're like the story. Yeah. And everyone's like, so when reading it is like, they're like Fox News. Everyone's like, well, this is amazing. You know, it's all fake. Right. Everyone is doing bullshit stories on the lobotomy. Fluff pieces on brain cutting. Yeah. Right. So he is the first celebrity, celebrity lobotomist. Is it safe to say he's the only? He started wearing a wide brimmed hat. Oh my God. Carrying a cane. Oh boy. And he had a briefcase in which he kept his instruments and he got a gold plated ice pick. Oh my God. He's like in a John Woo movie. But now he's like the prince of lobotomy. Yeah. A gold pick. I mean, really the balls. Granted, he's just like nobody's saying stop. Or the guy he went in to get it gold plated was like, you want to do what? I need it. A gold ice pick because I'm the lobotomy man. You see what I do, right? So this silver shit ain't working for me. I'm the badarachi. He became known for his captivating style. When presenting to his colleagues, when he presented to his colleagues, he loved to shock them. He proudly wrote in his diaries when his fellow professionals attending the operations fainted or vomited. Oh my God. So great. Dr. Larry Jenkins today. First vomited and then passed out his own vomit. Dear diary, nailed it again. Literally, literally turned a patient into a cucumber made seven doctors throw up. Let's just say I killed nine people and a bunch of my colleagues have chastised me and fainted. That's what actually happened today. It's called winning. That's what that's called. Hashtag ice picking. I'm going to frame my ice pick. Freeman was a single handedly responsible for the sex success of lobotomy in America, which was not successful. It was. Well, I mean, but it was successful in terms of it being in a horrible time. Yeah. But it was, it was as far as the fad of lobotomies goes. Yeah, he was the king of a horrible fad. Okay. Hitler was the king of killing Jews. He possessed the skills, academic credentials and personal characteristics required for such a medical breakthrough. He was the master of exploiting the press and the contemporary environment. He's just killed the press. His technique was adopted in elite institutions. So now everyone's seen it and now everyone's doing it. So they're all all over the country. Everyone's like, I can do I can get an ice pick and scramble a brain. So now it's just picking up makes the day fly by to it's going like wildfire. Plus you're in a hospital and some guys screaming at you and you're like, okay, I'm really I have a headache. I'm tired. I have a headache. You're going to have a headache. Hey, screaming Jimmy, can you come in this room over here? Tiffany. So nice in here right now. My headaches gone. Want to watch the game? Yeah, you do. So he's now traveling across the country teaching the technique to groups of psychiatrists. So he's doing like he so he's teaching surgery to groups of psychiatrists, even though he is not a surgeon. He's not a surgeon. He's not a surgeon. And he's teaching it to psychiatrists who aren't surgeons. Generally, I don't think so. Is this this that that is where it goes. Right. Then they start. Yes, psychiatrists are performing surgery. Yeah, they're performing surgery. So then people are not qualified to do it or doing it all over because now it's just like, hey, you just got to get a little tippy tap tap. Yeah, activity tap, tippy, tip, tip, tip, tip. Freeman happily performed ice pick lobotomies on anyone who was referred to him. During his career, he performs what they're like, they were like, it was from my foot. Wait. Oh, no, no. During his career, he would perform almost 3500 operations. Some of his patients could return to work. Those guys I do not fucking know. I cannot even begin to understand. Maybe he just missed the things he was supposed to be cutting. Well, I don't know. It seems pretty exact what he's doing. Like you hit it perfectly every time. While others were left in something of a vegetative state. Um, yeah, I can't but I cannot get over the guys who went back. Hey, what'd you do this weekend, Jimmy? Man, I'm not a doctor. Jimmy, man, I'll tell you the craziest shit in the world happened. What's I got lobotomized. Sorry. Yeah. Well, anyway, what do I need to say? Which documents do I need to sign over here? These are what did you and Kathy did you guys end up going to the lake ball game? Yeah. Oh, that's great. That is great. Well, I'll see you. I better hit the John. Am I right? I might get a little body every weekend. I feel pretty good. Yeah. So all of the all of the New York Times Newsweek readers digest all reporting positively on the lobotomy. And so the the American public loved the idea of lobotomy. It was like this is the fucking schiznit. It's it's just the same. It really isn't it just like the same sort of thing over and over again, like we'll just buy into some bullshit because everybody's like, it's great. It's the same thing as like Iraq. Yeah. It's the same thing as Iraq. But it's also the same thing as like the cookie diet. Yeah. It's all this nonsense fucking shit that we're always thinking it'll make us better. Yeah. It's the same thing as like, Kail is now the new superfood. And there was a get Kail. And then the next week you're like, oh, now it's watercress. And eat more eggs. Don't eat eggs. That's only eggs. That's all this is. And so everyone's jumping on board. Seriously on board. But this is even more people are coming in. I have a cold. Yeah. Could you could you the time my thumb? Can you lobotomize me? So there was really no objective analysis of the scientific revolt. Like so no one was like doing like, well, this doesn't really work. Devils advocate. Hold on now. I was just counting and I'm seeing. I'm seeing thousands of dead people and paralyzed and whatnot. Cured. Fair enough. All are cured. Fair. Fair. Thank you. Freeman also operate on people who were clearly afflicted by psychological disorders. But this was not always the case. Some patients underwent the procedure for region reasons such as alcoholism. What the fuck? I cannot stop with a drinky drinky drinky. Let's cut your brain in half. Or bad behavior. Or simply because they're perceived as mentally disturbed. He even operated on a 12 year old boy Howard Dully, whose stepmother didn't like him and wanted his personality changed. He was basically a normal kid. And she had him lobotomized. He's still alive. He wrote an article on the UK Guardian. It's called He didn't know he was lobotomized. He was fine. He know he hadn't. Well, he went on as a functioning person, but he had no idea he'd been lobotomized and he didn't find out until he was like 45. And he's like a bus driver. What? That's how we make bus drivers. Wait. So how did he find out? I don't know how he found out, but at one point he was like, wait, I'm sorry. What? You said, wait, you said what happened when your lobe is cut. Also, he also performed a lobotomy on Rosemary Kennedy. Wow. Rosemary was said to have been considered, quote unquote, retarded by members of her family, but that assessment has been widely disputed by subsequent analysis. Subsequent analysis. Some concluded that Rosemary may not have been as brilliant as other members of her family, but she was a functioning person. She kept a diary. She had an active social life. She was reported to have violent mood swings and a stormy personal personality. Yeah. In 1941, when she was 23, her father, Joseph Kennedy was told by doctors that a new procedure would help calm her mood swings that the family was finding difficult to handle. Her father gave permission. He performed the frontal lobotomy. This was Freeman and Watts at the time. After the surgery, Rosemary was reduced to an infantile mentality that left her incontinent and staring blankly at walls for hours. Her verbal skills were reduced to unintelligible babble. She was, she was institutionalized. That was in 41 to the most famous family in America. Yeah. And the newspapers still acted like it was fucking awesome. That's crazy. Right. It's crazy. I don't know. I don't know. That's then you would think you would think that this would not be okay. You really think that like, I can't imagine seeing somebody like brain dead and being like better, better. You're a hero. We've done it. You're a hero, sir. So the thing is, I think it's crazy. So then the end of the come 1954. So he's been doing this for, you know, 10 years, a new drug, Thorazine came out drug, a pill, a shot marketed as a chemical lobotomy. So the way to market the pill was to act like it was as good as the mixy mixy. Good. Stop this monster. So it was given to 2 million patients and it was very successful. Yeah. Not a lot of dying. Yeah, not a lot of, not a lot of irreversible damage. Suddenly Freeman was no longer invited to state institutions. Oh boy. Poor guy. All of a sudden people started talking about the negative effects of lobotomies. Love to hear it. So I haven't heard any yet. I haven't heard neither protest start. Whoa. And serious research supported the protesters. Statistics showed that a third of lobotomy patients approved. A third stayed the same and a third got worse. Suddenly it became difficult for Freeman to leave an inexperienced psychiatrist alone with a patient just to catch a holiday flight. So he used to like go in and go, yeah, that's how you do it. I got to get out of here. So the lobotomy fat is over. That's like disco. Just like the cookie fat. It is just like disco. Just like Iraq. The bottom is all cool things come to an end. Yeah. Eventually people like, wait, slavery is horrible. You know what I just realized? But not for Freeman. Oh, he did not want to give up the lobotomy. So he moved to California where we love. Hey, what's new? The fucking leader, the leaders of anti-facts. Yeah. Like, hey, what's really shitty for me? It sounds good. He began pushing lobotomies on depressed housewives who didn't feel like their lives were amounting to much. So he's like, are you, you in the house just feeling sad? Sick of doing dishes. Yeah. I'm cutting your brain. He eventually performed the bottomies on children. He's just scraping the bottom of the barrel. Patients with terminal cancer. Really? Well, I mean, to some degree, like I can understand that a little bit more because you're like, it brings relief because they're. Well, it's finite. You're, you're, you're dealing like you maybe are going to go through something horrible soon. Yeah. But at that point I'd rather die, but I understand somebody being like, but there's no medical reason to do it. No, there's no medical connection to curing cancer in your brain. I mean, there's no real medical connection to lobotomies. No, this is going to do the trick. They're not going to do anything. Hey, trust. Look at Waltie. Look Waltie in the eye. Waltie's blinking. Trust. Trust Waltie. I don't trust Waltie. He lobotomized 19 children under the age of 18, including a four year old. What a fucking asshole. He's a monster at this point. A monster. A fucking four year old. Now he's just, now he should be executed. Now he's a fucking monster. An unfocused four year old. He was selling lobotomies to people for 25 bucks a pop. God, they're hand jobs. They're at back alley hand jobs. Hey man, I'll suck your dick for a fuck. You're a crack rock. Suck your dick for a lobotomizing the alley for 25 real quick. Yeah, yeah. You can do a lobotomy in the bathroom. You can do a lobotomy in the bathroom. Put this box over your head. Here we go. Clank, clank, clank goes the trolley. Later. I hate getting another beer. 25 bucks a pop. 25 bucks. Pretty good money though. Buy back a man, right? I mean, that's pretty solid. Yeah, that's not bad, I guess. For murdering. In 1967, 67. God. 67. Peace and love. Who wants their brain cut? So he's been doing, so since the FAD ended in 54, he's been doing lobotomies for- 13 rogue years. Another 13 years in California. Just fucking axing people up. He performed a lobotomy on one of his patients in Berkeley, California. He severed a blood vessel and the patient died three days later. Yeah. This was the end of Walter Freeman's lobotomy spree. His medical license was revoked. It was fucking- He had a medical license. Now? Now was revoked? That's it. Now? Okay. The four year old was one thing, but this guy- Listen. You killed, okay, this is maybe like the thousandth guy you've killed, but you killed the last one. You've probably murdered about 1700 people, but this one was just graphic. You're not a doctor anymore. Over the line. Yup. By the way, you were never a doctor, you were a man with a tool kit. You had a nice pick and a mallet. You're what we call a contractor. You had a nice pick, a mallet, and a dream, okay? You can go to Home Depot. So during the last five years of his life, he performed no more lobotomies. He died from cancer in 1972 at the age of 76. He really should have been lobotomized. But here's the crazy thing. Freeman was one of the very few psychiatrists who believed that mental illness had a physical biological component, which is what is believed now. Sure. Okay, hold on. No. In some ways, the lobotomy led to Thorazine, which led to all of the stuff we have now, which helps people. Don't do this. No. You have to do it because it was the fucking dark ages and he was doing a horrible thing, but did in the end, was he a guy who may have ended up saving more people? Yes, yes. Yes to that, probably, but fuck off. That is bullshit. Because he could have, that could have so, okay, Thorazine was created. He didn't fuck off. He didn't fuck off. But Thorazine- He didn't stop. You're right. He went rogue. Well, he had a- A problem. Well, he also had a gold plated ice pick and he had a nice hat. He was Jones. He had a lobotomy mobile. What's he supposed to do? Just, who's going to buy that now? He's still got a lease on it. What were you doing in here? I'm making keys. You in or out? But so he was one of the few guys who- Yes. Who thought that there was a physical, so he- Yes. Yeah. So, okay, yes, you're right. He had a, he, yes, he believed something that was maybe not widely believed. However, however, we cannot defend a man who took his fucking lobotomy business on the road like hair tonic in the 1800s and is selling people a song and dance and using jazz hands while cutting coins. It just can't happen. Jazz hands. It's not okay. Check this out. I can balance an ice pick on my nose while lobotomize these two guys. You guys, this is going to be great. That's my husband. Who has the clown wig? I mean, you can picture Bill Murray playing this guy. Oh my God. Could you make this in a movie because it's so horrifying? You probably could. It would probably not do well. Yeah. Yeah. You're okay. You know, I got a way to stop this. Yeah. You just put a little ice pick in the dog's eyeball. Oh yeah, do you want ice picks? Just give a little lobotom. Do you want an ice pick in your brain? Cut your brain. It's going to cut your brain a little. So you shut up. Yeah, cut that brain. So how do you feel? This is probably our darkest one. This is horrible. Well, because- This is since the vampire one, the vampire heart one. I'm going to pick this up. All right, pick it up. Since the vampire heart one, this is by far the- the vampire heart one is similar in the sense that you can't- you just can't believe- and there's shit that we're doing now that people are going to look back at and be like, what the fuck was wrong with them? But you can't believe there was a time when these things were okay at all. No, they shouldn't be. They should never be. Never. But again, when you have a circumstance where you're desperate, which they were in those hospitals, right? They're desperate. Yeah, true. So they needed an answer and some guy provided them with one, horrific as it was. Yes. I'm all- I understand they had a stressful work environment. Okay, so now I want to talk about Hitler. No. I wake up and the dog's on board. The dog's like, you wake up. The dog does not like lobotomies. No, the dog needs one. I'll tell you what though, for all the potential- for all the potential noises, it's pretty good that we just- that was it. Could have been worse. Yeah, oh no, we had a lot of- we did dodge a lot. The dog- so we're going to end this with the dog barking. Hey! Shhh. At this point. Lobotomy. Lobotomy. That should be the dog's name. Lobotomy. If you got a Labrador, named it Labrador. This is exactly what it's like. It's this like lobotomizing. This dog should be lobotomized. So that was- so instead of having the joy and emotion that the dog is- you know, the dog is expressing nerves or whatever it is right now. We can throw that all out. Well look, okay, so we're trying to do something right now, right? We're trying to get something accomplished. And there's just this- And there's like this screaming thing and it's bothering- It doesn't understand and it's not listening. Right, it's not listening, you can't get it to calm down because it thinks it's protecting the house. Yeah. Blah-bitty-blah. So we can take care of this by just snippity-snip. I think we just do- Just a bang-bang, snippity-snip, tappity-tap. I think we do a bang-bang, snip-snip, tappity-tap. And I think we'll be fine. And then- Worst case scenario bleeds out in your son's playroom. Hey dad, what's wrong with the dog? You know what? Daddy fixed it. Daddy fixed him. Daddy fixed the dog good. It's not going to bark anymore. He won't bark at you and he's no fun to play with. Yeah, he's going to be great. Good doggie dog. Oh, look at him. He just lazer like a rug. He just lazer like a rug. Look at him. He's been dead for days. Look at him. Well, I'm sorry I had to tell you this. Yeah, well, I'm sorry too. And I mean- The American history is not always pretty. And sometimes we're going to have to go into some dark shit. It's disgusting. This is disgusting. This is the worst one yet. The worst. Yeah. But the comedian in me is excited to think of the movie. Because fuck it. That is amazing. All right. All right. We're all done. Nobody's happy. Nobody's happy. I speak for everyone when I say nobody's happy. Well, there's someone out there out of the bottom that's probably pretty happy. Yeah, that guy. The guy, the dollop fan listening to the- The dollop man. I had one like- Here's an idea for a dollop. Here's some art. Here's an idea for a dollop. It's a picture of a flower. Do it.