 I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling plot, guys. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. I'm going to do a little bit of a little bit of a It's The Dollop. That was our theme song. It's really good. It's music by Colin McCoy edited by Vicky Pezza. That's it. Yeah. I didn't hear it. Nope. You certainly didn't. I was going to pretend I did. I didn't hear it. So pretending was going pretty bad. I just a small up is what I'm calling them. Small up. Little facts. Sure. Okay. I just reading that people in New York are putting up fake goodwill bins all over the city so people will throw clothes in and then they just take the clothes and sell them at other stores. People are fucking horrible. What I love when people wiggle around rules like you know what I mean? Like we always make these rules and they're pretty good but there's always a way for somebody to be like, nah. No, I know how to fuck with that. I'm across the border. I can. Yep. But it's probably like the mafia. Like they've probably dropped down so low. Whereas they used to like rob everybody. Who pays the overalls? Everybody at the fish market pays me a thousand dollars and now it's like, hey, you want these t-shirts? Members only. Members only, baby. That's right. This is one left, two left converse. What do you think of Gap jeans? Huh? All right. You like that? Now what do you think of Jordache? Because that's what we have. All right. So you're a baseball fan. I like baseball but it's lower tier sports for me. Okay. So because we have so many listeners in Australia, I'm going to briefly explain some of the rules of baseball really quick. All I need to do is talk about the pitcher because this is about a pitcher. Okay. You have a very devilish smile. So baseball started in the like 1870s or something and quickly a professional league developed and one of our greatest pitchers of all time is named Cy Young and he pitched around the turn of the century, 1900 and not the 2000. No. And we have an award named after him, Cy Young. Yep. He's probably the best pitcher at baseball who will win that. And strikeouts are a big deal. You throw three balls past a guy, it's a strikeout, that's a big deal. Yeah. Right. So that's what pitchers, the best pitchers strike out a lot of guys. Yes. When great pitchers do it, they throw no hitters where nobody gets hits and that's a huge deal. Huge deal. Huge deal. So that's basically all you need to know. Good. Because we're going to talk about Rue Baudel. Oh man. I don't know. Well, Rue is my favorite baseball player of all time. Okay. Yeah. Okay. I think you're overwhelmed with the goodness. I can't even, the story of Rue Baudel is so okay. He's one of the greatest strikeout pitchers in the history of baseball. Okay. Beginning in 1898, he set just about every pitching record there was. Okay. Yeah, that's the exact same time that Cy Young is pitching. That's interesting. So you think you would know about him, right? And I wonder why I don't. He was one of the most feared pitchers in baseball. Okay. And he was an amazing idiot. What do you mean? He was pretty dim. Okay. He was literally not that smart. Okay. But I mean, a lot of athletes aren't smart. No. Right? I think it's as we peel this onion, you're going to find out just how not smart he is. The fact that his name's Rueb is great too. Well, that wasn't the original name he was given. That might have been a nickname given to him by one of his teammates. Okay, yeah. So that reflects his IQ. There's very little known about his youth. All right. But we know he grew up in Pennsylvania and he did not have a formal education. Okay. So he's just a guy, you know, right off the hayseed truck. Sure. I want to emphasize again that he did not have a formal education. Oh, okay. So that's the thing I should be very aware of. So he claimed that his childhood hobby was throwing rocks at birds. Oh, man. That's how he learned how to pitch. Oh my God. Okay. Yeah, sure. Yeah. So he's, you know, that was his hobby. Sure. His hobby was to throw rocks at birds. At birds. Yeah. So that was the thing he did. Okay. Who needs books when you have that? Right? Yeah. And why, if you're a parent, why would you want to have that kid do anything else? No. Obviously, you know that's going to translate. That will obviously translate. Yeah. I see my kid at school and I'm like, just go outside and throw rocks at birds. What's it going to take for him to go kill some birds with rocks? Be a success. And you know he was. You know he was killing them. Oh, for sure. Because if he is this amazing pitcher. No, he wasn't training to pitch. He was just a little shit. And then like a byproduct of that was like, hey, I have a really strong right arm. So by age 18, he was ready for the minor leagues in Butler, Pennsylvania. Okay. Which is before you become a professional baseball player, you start out in the minors and you work your way up through this system that there's three levels to it. He built his reputation of being very good natured, but he was very simple minded. Catcher Jack Nelson gave him the nickname Rube, which was reserved for Hicks. Right. And it struck. It stuck immediately. Everyone's like, fuck yes, that guy's Rube. Hey, hey, you're Rube. Yeah, okay. Look out the bird. Oh, bird, bird, bird. Give me that rock. Give me that rock. I'm going to throw it at him. The Rube also didn't quite understand the rules of baseball when he got there. Now see, that's a red flag for a player. So in baseball, if you hit the ball and the pitcher, you know, like a ground ball to the pitcher, he picks up, he throws it to first. And if the ball gets to the guy at first before you do, you're out. Yes. Rube, when he started, would throw the ball at the runner and hit the runner. Well, now let me ask you this. Was the team called something like the Cardinals? Because then he's just going back to his boyhood game of rock throwing at first. True. That is true. So no, it wasn't. It wasn't. Can you imagine a coach seeing a guy be like, no, no, what are you doing? And then, and then he would say the batter's out where I come from when you hit him. Like, so he's just like this kid from the fucking crazy mountains of Pennsylvania. Failed. You hit the guy with the. Can you imagine how horrible it was to play in that league? You hit the ball and the people just fucking throwing this. Just the opposing team. We're like, ah, the pitchers throwing the balls at the players. Yeah, that's how we go. Well, so then his next opportunity, and I don't know why this happened, but Volant College, which I don't think is in existence anymore, VOLANT, they. Great school. So this is when things were different. They wanted the great players to play for them, so they would like make offers for players to minor leagues. They would go. Yeah, they would like they would like trying to get right. It's the opposite of today. So so wait, this guy who has had no education, dumb as a fucking dumb as the rocks that he's throwing stupid as a rock is now maybe going to college. I mean, is this a reality show or what? They offered him free tuition and board. What tuition and what? And board? Oh, I'm not bored. I'm having fun and a dollar a game. Uh huh. And free tobacco. Oh, I like backy. This is my right hand. My throwing one. The college has had seven innings per game. He averaged 15 strikeouts. That's pretty great. That's insane. Yeah. Wait, I mean, how many is that? That's because there's three innings. So that's seven sets, 21. So there's six six players were doing something other than striking. Yeah. OK, that's good. More than once, he called for all the players to leave the field and he would pitch with no defense behind him. What like do you know how fucking mad that is? And who can just see everybody off the field? Is the coach a scarecrow? I don't fucking know what's happening and everyone just leave the field and he just pitch and then he'd strike the guys out. OK, well, you should explain why that's crazy, too, because you have all the people behind the pitcher who are there to feel the ball and get him out. So basically, the pitcher is saying, like, if you hit it beyond me, you win the game. Waddell would celebrate three strike innings by cartwheeling or walking on his hands or somersaulting off the field back to the dugout. Now I'm starting to love this guy. Right. I am so that would be the greatest thing ever. This is great. A guy just somersaulting. Yes. A grown man who can't read, who's telling the rest of his team to leave the field, cartwheeling and somersaulting when he does well. Yeah, that's Rube. The other team must want to kill him. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Kill the other fans. Can you imagine their fans be like, motherfucker? No respect. So he earned reputation and next he signed for $500 with Louisville in 1986. I think 1896. I think they were the Cardinals. Oh, boy, that's going to be a paradox for him. He's going to throw rocks at himself. I am a bird. I don't know what to do. Peep, peep, peep. I hit myself in the face. Where's Rube? He killed, he stoned himself to death. Okay, so club manager Fred Clark fined Rube $50 for excessive drinking and Rube quit the team. That was after two days. Oh, wow. Okay. I'm a huge fan. I am so in. How this is not a movie. Oh, my God. Yeah. So the Rube packed up and headed. I mean, the first day is like unpacking. He went there, he unpacked, he got shit faced. Yeah, he got fine. And he's gone. He packed up and he left. Two days. Two days. I mean, that's really like probably like three hours where he could just get himself thrown off the team. And imagine what he must have done. Big loaded. Oh, yeah. To get kicked off the team. A baseball. You get kicked off a baseball team for drinking. He's cartwheeling and telling his team to leave the field sober. And also, this is a team that saw what he was doing at the college cartwheeling and telling her what to leave the field. They went, that guy is going to be a good guy. And then he drinks. They're like, wait a minute. Meet the new face of the franchise. Does anyone else smell gin? So he packed up and headed for Detroit. Oh, you're there. His career lasted nine games when he was fined $50 for playing in a Sandlot game with local kids on his day off. He was fine for that? Yeah, because they don't want him to get hurt. Oh, OK. And Rube being against fines. May I guess he quit the team. So he left. Now, no one knows where he went after this period. He was gone for a few months. Wow. He just vanished. And then later that winter, someone spotted him wrestling alligators in a traveling circus. Oh, all righty. Wow. Right? Yeah. So, I mean, you thought throwing baseball to the kids in the Sandlot was bad for the career. Holy shit. Yeah. I mean, what else are you going to do in the winter? Yeah. Because this is the time when baseball players had to make money in the off season. Right. So why not wrestle some alligators? Look, I mean, it was either that or be a welder. I mean, OK. So it's the best thing ever. What was your summer job? Oh, I was still on fridges over at Sears. I wrestled gators. I'm sorry. Yeah, me or my thing, but I wrestled alligators all summer. OK. Yeah, I'm trying to pitch again. OK. Yeah, we got I guess we're going to get bird. What else reappeared in the 19 and the 1899 season with the Western League's Columbus Grand Rapids team? And he quickly became a fan favorite. All right. For two reasons. First, he's rude, but he won 27 games. All right. And second, he was complete fucking lunatic. Oh, my God. The Rube was known for arriving just before game time in his street clothes. So normally in baseball, all the players go out and practice hitting and they practice fielding and it's like an hour. Oh, yeah. And fans come down and they and they watch it and they get they get balls signed by the it's like a big thing. It's a tradition. So he wouldn't do any of that. He just show up right at game time and then he would stroll. He would stroll through the grandstand. So he wouldn't come to the players. He would come through the grandstand, walk through the stadium, all the fans raising a commotion as he went through. He would grab people's beers and slam them. He would eat their hot dogs like God. And sometimes he would start fights with fans. I mean, he's made himself unfindable. You cannot find him. I mean, I pay so much money to see. But also by the same token, if you're a fan and like somebody like drinks your beer or eats your food, you're not like, hey, it's awesome. You're like, buddy, that's all the fucking field. Hey, asshole, you make money pitching. I came here to see you. Don't eat my shit. You're going to start 20 minutes late. You lost my beer and my fucking hot dog. Oh, great. My kids crying. Oh, God, I got to fight him. And then you have to fight the roof. Often he'd throw free peanuts to kids. That's nice. Nice. And it said he would usually change into his uniform as he ran across the diamond. So did he also have been streaking? He didn't wear underwear. Oh, my. Let's get all the details out now. Get him out of the table. What else? We have a stick in his ass. Pretend it was a tail. So essentially, you have a big, dumb guy running through the stands drinking beer, and then he would shed all his clothes and change into his uniform on the diamond. And win the game. And then be the best guy out there. Oh, my God. Every everything, everything before the running along the field and changing, I can get in a way. That is sort of just like, yeah, just get your uniform. Change. You can change somewhere else. There's a locker room. He doesn't have time, though. He's out there. He just wants to play the game. No time. I have time to eat hot dogs and beat up fans, but changing, I'm going to need to combine that and approaching the diamond. He was easily distracted. So opposing fans would hold up puppies. Oh. And? He would run towards them. Wait. Wait. He was on the mound. Wait. Wait. So he'd be pitching and a guy would be up a bat. And someone would hold up a puppy and he'd run over to pet it or grab it. I mean, he's now gone from being really not smart to maybe lobotomized. He could have been. Oh, the lobotomies weren't invented yet. But I would imagine if they were, he might have gotten lobotomized. It sounds like he might have invented them on accident somehow. He was also distracted by shiny objects. I mean, and they would put him in a trance on the mound where he would just sit there and stare at them. So you could go to a game and hold up like a spoon and he would just stare at it. There would be like, come on, let's play. Now hit him with the puppy. His head just explodes. There he goes. The Rube would also just leave in the middle of games to go fishing. Wait, what the fuck? I mean, really? This is all real. What is the manager of the team doing? I don't. What do you do? He's the best player besides so young. He's the best player at baseball, except sometimes he in the middle of the game, he just walks off the mound because he wants to go fishing. What are you going to do? Because he gave you half a good game. At tonight's game, there are no puppies or shiny objects allowed near the pitcher. All right, Rube. I think you hit him with a stink ball right here. Let's get out of here. Yeah, I'm going to go fishing. I'm sorry. I will go fishing now. No, we're in the middle of the... I'm done today. We're in the middle of the... I got to fish before it's dark. Bye. Change. Changing. Oh, God. There it is. We need a new pitcher. That means a pitcher would just always be like, oh, coming in again. Should we find him? No, don't find him. Okay, so this is the best. This is the most well-known fact about Rube Waddell. If a fire truck went by the stadium... I'm going to need to stop you. I... It doesn't matter what the rest of the statement is. This is a problem. Okay. If a fire truck went by the stadium, he would chase it. No! Every time. What? He would always chase a fire truck. I'm starting to think... No matter where it was. Does he maybe have a dog brain? He likes puppies, shiny things get him, and fire trucks... Well, he wasn't formally educated. Yeah, but still, does your brain become a canine brain? He would only eat out of bowls on the floor. He had to have a little door in his regular door to crawl outside to go make boom. Oh, God. I would love to see that. Him just running out of the stadium and all the players like, oh, fuck. I mean, if the manager would be like, look, if we can get through today with no fire trucks, no puppies, no shiny objects, and he doesn't want to go fishing, we got a shot. Also, because this is when fire stations were... They weren't public, so you would pay them... If you had a house, you would give them a monthly fee in case your house caught on fire and they would come and put it out. If you didn't pay a fee, they would just show up and let it burn. So potentially... You could pay the fire department. You could just be ordering. Yeah, you could just order. Yeah, go by the stadium at four and then the Rube would run away. Rube, Rube, no, Rube! Where you guys going? Louisville owner, so this is back. Now he's probably going to go back to Louisville, right? He's been playing for other teams. He's been at Grand Rapids. So Louisville owner manager, Barney Dreyfus, got word... Now, sorry, was he not in Louisville before? He was for two days. Okay, for the two days. That's where he got... Right. But so now there's a different manager in charge. Yeah, a different guy wants to roll the dice on his career. So they got word of a success and brought him down to Louisville. Dreyfus heard the National League was going to consolidate and shut down his Louisville franchise. So this guy bought the Pittsburgh Pirates and traded the entire team to Pittsburgh and then just put a bunch of shitty players in Louisville. So when they shut down the Louisville franchise, he'd be like, I got a team over here. So he just basically pulled the fast one. But that all of a sudden made Rube suddenly in a really big city. So he's never been in a big city before. So now he is playing baseball in front of very large crowds. I don't like that for Rube. And he's playing with Honus Wagner, who's a huge historical baseball player and Fred Clark. So he's with a good team. He's in a great position in a great city. Yeah, he's in one of the original eight teams of baseball. But I just worry, Dave, that there's going to be too many things to distract our little dog-minded friend. Well, we'll see. I got a bad feeling. Why don't we just see what happens? I just want to say I'm on record. I don't feel like... I don't know why you say that. Because it's called the Cy Young Award. So far... One teammate of this era recalled Rube soaking his left arm in buckets of ice for hours at a time, claiming sincerely that he feared he'd burn up the catcher's glove if he didn't cool it off. So he thought... So he does know science. No, he's not good with physics and science. He doesn't get that you... He's seen cartoons. Sure. And in his mind... Lots of them. A ball can catch on fire and burn up another person. If you throw it hard enough. Rube, hold on. I got to keep ice in my arm, otherwise I'm going to hurt that poor catcher. Light him on fire. Waddell led the league in 1900 with a 2.37 ERA. Oh, wow. So he's beating Cy Young at this point. He's better than Cy Young. He's better than the guy who... The award is named after him. The award is named after Cy Young. And this guy's better. I got a bad feeling. But he racked up an unimpressive 8 and 13 record. Okay. It was part of that because there were so many fire trucks? Many of his defeats came as a result of his high rate of errors. Most people believed he committed so many errors because of his habit of drinking at local taverns as a pregame ritual. Where he was known down to suck down many beers and put on an apron and play bartender. Oh my God. Aren't you pitching today? Yeah. Oh man. How many fingers do I have? Oh my God. I like a ritual. Yeah. A pregame ritual. Not that he would go every now and then and have a pop before the game. But here's the crazy thing. He's still pitching great. But when they hit the ball at him, he can't throw it to first because he can't pick it up because he's so drunk. So the thing he can do is throw it really hard at a very small space. Yeah, the guy's just like, all right guys, we're just going to bunt today. Room's hammered. They probably did. Oh my God. They're probably just bunting back at him. And just probably laughing their asses off. And then someone holds a puppy up and room just like falls in his own dugout. I mean, there's a lot of hurdles in this guy. What else? Player manager Fred Clark suspended him in late June of that year. It turns out the Rube liked to pack pistols and one day he threatened to shoot his manager full of holes. And I like how he's still not getting fined. I love that he's a drunk guy. He's drunk. Who's bringing guns to the stadium. Loaded guns, threatening to kill his boss. And now threatening to kill his manager. Oh my God. You'd be like, wow, I thought we had problems when he was just showing up shit faced for games. He's going to kill me. So he was kicked off the team and found himself playing for an independent team in Puxa-tani. Oh Puxa-tani. Yeah, that's where the... The groundhog. The groundhog. Pennsylvania. Legendary manager Connie Mack upon hearing of Rube's availability immediately signed him for his franchise, the Milwaukee A's. Okay. My home city. Yeah. Now we're in your area so that you should know about him. Yeah. Well, I think we probably refer to him as Monkey Paw. Sounds like. Love at first sight. Yeah. Like, oh no. Under Mack, Waddell finally began to excel in one of his most famous feats after pitching a 17 inning game. The Rube turned around and pitched the second game of a double header, completely shutting out the opposing team. Jesus. So he pitched. So normally today a pitcher will pitch seven innings is the norm. Yeah. Sometimes eight if he's doing real, sometimes nine if he's doing awesome. Yeah. But generally, if someone throws 125 pitches, that is way too much. That's the lie of people. Like, you might have done too much. This guy threw triple the normal amount. Jesus. In one day. Oh my God. And shut them out. And had a dog's brain. And had a dog's brain. I mean, if you're the other team, you're like, Jesus Christ. Now why did he do it? Why did he do it on that day? What do you think was his motivation? Oh, Jesus. Connie Mack promised him an all expense paid three day fishing trip. So he performed. That's why his feats in baseball. That's why he's doing better in Milwaukee. He's surrounded by beer and the guys knows how to work him. He's putting carrots on sticks. Three day fishing trip. Sure. I'll still have my career for three days in a boat. You'll keep throwing. I'll keep throwing. How many do you do? Four games straight? We're only doing two today. Okay. You sure? I'll keep pitching after the game. The first game went 17 innings. 17 innings. That's two games already. Two games. Jesus Christ. Two games and then another game. His fascination with fire departments continued throughout his time with the A's. And he now was routinely wearing red under his clothing just in case the bell would ring. So wait, wait, wait. No, no, no, no. Because now he ain't just chasing him. Now he's taking off his clothes and he's all covered red and he's helping them. Super fireman. So now the middle of the game, if the fire engine goes by, he becomes a fireman. He becomes a fireman. He's a fireman now. Sorry. Hey, dude, have you talked to the fire department about this? No. Just like showing up, they'd be like, aren't you pitching? What's the problem here? Where are we going to get it? Let's go. He looked, throw rocks at that fire. Dirty fire deserves rocks. Oh my God. Yeah. So it sounded like he was straightening himself out to other teams. So the pirates demanded his return. They were like, he's still under contract with us. We didn't actually fire him. He just threatened to shoot someone. He just left or whatever happened. So within two games, he was dropped by them. He was dropped by Milwaukee? He was dropped by, oh fuck, sell him, lease her, or drop him off the bridge, do anything you want as long as you get him off my team. So they got him back. Pittsburgh got him back. Pittsburgh, and then he was there for two days. So it's very hard to follow because he has a lot of two day stints. Yeah. As a matter of fact, that might be a good nickname instead of the rub. Old two day stints. So after two days back at the pirates. What the fuck could he have done? Fred Clark yelled at the owner, sell him, release him, drop him off the Monohigala Bridge, do anything you like to him so long as you get him off my team. So he was not wanted. Yeah. Is he just holding a grudge because he threatened to murder him? Kind of petty, isn't it? So he spent the majority of the 1901 season with the Chicago Orphans. Wow. Horrible team name. Horrible team name. The Orphans? Unless they were orphans, then it's odd. Well, then it's terrific if the Orphans had ever been there. And then if he goes to the Orphans, that's my favorite team ever. Yeah. Oh my God. The bad news bears in 1901. But I'm assuming they weren't all orphans. No, that's just a terrible name. The owner was just. This is a team of people whose parents have died. The guy walking the stands is like, gruel! Get your gruel! The original name was Chicago Dead Parents. Good. Good. Were the Chicago stillborns? Let's get them! But he was suspended for erratic behavior. Wait, Rube? A lot of that was because he kept chasing the fire engines. I mean, at some point. And it is Chicago. At some point. Yeah. He got a 13 and 15 record, mostly blamed on. Fire trucks going by the stadium. It's slowly becoming evident that really the big problem here was fire. Much like what Frankenstein feared. If they could keep the fires under control, then the Rube would have a better record. Yeah, but I mean, I can't believe that nobody was able to, over the span of time, get through to him. Yeah. That just don't chase those. What do you mean? Don't chase the fire trucks, Rube? Why? Please stop running after fire trucks and pitch you're not a fireman. Right, but they go by. Yes. And then I go by. That's the part I'm having a huge problem with. Yeah. People need help. Okay. Well, I'm glad we did this. Okay, I hear one. Yeah, bye, Rube. He later spent a month playing semi-pro ball in Wisconsin and then traveled to the West Coast. Once in California, he refused to leave, signing on with a Los Angeles franchise for the 1902 season. Okay. Then in mid-June, two Pinkerton guards, working for the Philadelphia A's Connie Mack boss, tracked him down and dragged him back to Pennsylvania. So took him? So now why didn't they just get a fire truck to drive by and have him chase it back to the old club? But this isn't the team that fired him after two days. Last time, this is the team before that who wanted him back, so they kidnapped him. I mean, it's not like you could just make... You can't just take a guy back to work in another state. That's called kidnapping. That's slavery. Yeah, kidnapping. Yep. Yep. That's slavery. He's been fired so many times. Do you think when he got fired at one point ever, he misunderstood and was excited? Fire? Fire? Fire? Fire? No, no, Rube. Leave. Leave. The bad fire. So they brought him back to Pennsylvania and Mack, who was considered the only one to be able to control him. And he really wasn't able to all that much. No, no one was able to control him. I mean, nobody could take the fire truck out of his heart. It's a huge problem. So basically, Mack brought him back and tried to put him under house arrest. That's how they figured... Great idea. That's how they figured to take care of it. So this is when pro athletes had two jobs. They play baseball and then they do their regular job. So Mack forbid the Rube from alligator wrestling in the off season, which he was still doing. Why? I can't... So instead, for additional income, he started playing rugby for a Pennsylvania team. So that's his off season job. Better. And now everything went awesome. So he's getting all of his energy out. He's playing two sports. He's never not playing a sport. He's like a kid. And so this is years of stability that he led the league in strikeouts for the next five years. Now, this is when Cy Young is playing. He's leading. He's pitching better than Cy Young. Five years. Five years. It's a long time. Five years. Cooperstown historian Lee Allen described 1903 in the life of Ruud Waddell. He began that year sleeping in a firehouse in Camden, New Jersey. It's just insane. He's just... And ended it... In a firehouse. He's like the Dalmatian. And ended it. Tending bar in a saloon in Wheeling, West Virginia. In between those events, he won 22 games for the Philadelphia A's, courted, married, and became separated from Mary Wayne Skinner, saved a woman from drowning, accidentally shot a friend in the hand, and was bitten by a lion. That was a year? Dude, wait. I mean, that had to have happened at the circus, right? It was the circus. He got bitten by... He saved a woman from drowning. He shot his friend in the hand. He was a bartender, played rugby. Sleep in a firehouse. He got married and divorced, basically. Slip in the firehouse. And got bitten by a lion. And got bitten by a lion. I mean, right? Do we know how he got bitten by a lion? Nope. It's just in the Hall of Fame. It says that. Shot his friend in the hand? I know why the wife left. Yeah. That year sounds like a little shaky. Yeah. It wasn't a great marriage. So now he's playing legendary baseball, and his only competition on the mound was the Hall of Famer contemporary Cy Young. That was his only competition at the time. No one else was as good as those two guys. Okay. Except one was a normal human and the other one was crazy. One had a dog brain and one was a man. His popularity skyrocketed. The citizens of Philadelphia loved him. Of course. Oh, how would you not? People who are from other places, Philadelphia has the most horrendous sports fans in the country. They used to throw batteries at players. They embrace how horrible they are, too. They wouldn't even be offended by that being said. That's right. Yeah. I'll never forget when the Giants won the World Series and Tim Litzkin was walking off the mound and there were just all these people holding up signs above the dugout saying how horrible his teeth are. Oh, God. Yeah. And then he shot them out and won the game. Yeah. Just like four people holding up signs about his crooked teeth. Philadelphia! That's why we need them. Someone's got to do it. So Philadelphia delighted in a star who would show up at saloons and then work at the bar. The fact he was known to play almost as much ball with local kids as with the professional counterparts endeared him to the city. So now they're letting him play with kids. Yeah. When you say no to that, he wrestles elegantly. So let him do it. Yeah. That's like the least trouble he can get. Yeah. Let him play ball with the kids. Yeah. You stopped him from doing what? Playing ball with kids. He might hurt his arm. Do you have any idea what you've just done? He's going to try. He's probably going to get bit by a lion now. He was especially popular with local firefighters who actually put him up in local firehouses for days and days at a time. So he was basically living at firehouses around Philadelphia. I mean, I mean, come on. Come on. He's so cute. Can he just stop this? Firemen. He's like a four year old. I know. He is like a lot of people believe that it was because of the firefighters that the Rube earned his reputation for heroism. Okay. After saving two men from drowning while on a duck hunting trip. Now wait, he's already saved a woman from drowning. He saved people all the time. So now he's saved two other men from drowning. Okay. Stories of the Rube's perchant for life saving began to circulate. It is believed that the Rube may have throughout his life saved as many as 13 lives. Shut the fuck up. What? He's a fucking hero. He's so simple. He's so simple. He's so simple. He was always on alert. Danger. Yes. Winning. Fear. Lion. Pet lion. Pet lion. Oh, lion bad fruit punch hand. He was always on alert. The Philadelphia Daily News wrote in 1995 how he was on a houseboat cocktail party when he heard someone scream for help. Okay. Without a moment's hesitation, Rube dove into the frigid waters and succeeded in rescuing a passing log. A passing log? Yeah. The person who screamed was on the boat. He just jumped in and grabbed a log. Look you don't save 13 lives by waiting to find out. You know what? Sometimes you gotta go get hypothermia and rescue wood. Oh look. Hey you guys, I got her. She's okay everyone. She'll be fine. Hopefully she don't catch on fire. Okay, so he's popular, right? Yes. I would guess that this man would be popular. So what happens to players when they're super popular in America now? Well, they... Other careers? Yeah, the other career obviously. They run for political office perhaps? Rube took a turn at acting. Oh boy. He toured the nation in the vaudeville play The Stain of Guilt and received critical acclaim. Oh my god. They did not cheer his acting because he was allowed by his fellow actors to improvise all his lines. Oh my god. Since he was incapable of remembering them. Oh my god. Oh yes. Yes. Oh to be there. Oh to see a man who chases fire trucks improvise. Why sir, have you taken my beautiful Bridget? You know, you got a lot of anger. Yes that is darn you, scoundrel. I'ma leave and hug that lady. Can you imagine? It's the greatest thing ever. Making up his line. I mean as a professional actor who would probably be standing there just like, all right now wait for that void look to just vanish for a moment. Here we go. Now reply with my line. Yeah, that would have nothing in common. Maybe you should ask me where you want to go later. He was lauded for his ability to quote throw the villain twice as far as Kyle Blue. So I don't know who Kyle Blue is, but he was picking up the actor who played the villain and heaving him across the stage. Improv. Yes, I am. He was able to parlay his success as an actor into higher wages at the ballpark. Wow, because now he was a big star. He's a star. He's a star. In 1904 he got 150 yearly pay raise from the Philadelphia Athletics. All right. So he's rolling in it, right? That year. I don't like him with money. I'll say that. Fair. Totally fair. That year, Rube also inspired one of the first extended major league contract negotiations on record. Okay. Surprised, right? Yeah. Because it doesn't seem like he would be capable of negotiating a contract. I have a feeling he didn't or something. His catcher and roommate, Ossie Schreckengust, was the one who was negotiating the contract. Ball players generally room two to a room while on the road. They actually still do that. They actually still share a room. The Schreck couldn't handle the nighttime habits of the Rube and refused to renew his contract until the A's inserted a no eating crackers in bed cloth. Because back then they shared a bed. I mean, oh, they shared a bed? Yeah, back then you'd sleep in the same bed. And he was eating crackers in bed. And so they put it in the contract. Like pounding crackers to the point where that is a sticking point in your contract. I'm just not going to be next to him eating crackers anymore. Fuck me. In 1904, Rube set baseball's all time strikeout record at 349. Wow. Which said for 61 years. The 1905 season saw an epic duel of the pitchers, Rube and Cy Young, in a 20 inning throw fest. So for 20 innings they went head to head. Really? Didn't give up a run. Jesus. Rube took the game ball, probably the most sought after baseball in years, and gave it away for free booze at a local tavern. Jesus Christ. Can you imagine that ball would be the most historical ball? I mean, one of the most historical, in all of baseball history. Without question. And he gave it away for some beers. And he gave it away for like a couple of shots. I think I know why they call him the Rube. And then after he died, every bar in Philadelphia would be like, I have the ball. So no one actually knows what the ball is. That's kind of good. In 1905, Rube's old ways started to come back. During one weekend, Rube was cited as a hero for preventing a serious fire in a crowded department store. He picked up a blazing oil stove and carried it from the building. What? Is he Forrest Gump? He's like a giant Forrest Gump. He's like Forrest Gump in a Hulk body. Forrest Hulk. Forrest Hulk. Just picking up a flaming gas stove. Or oil stove. I mean, a highly flammable stove. It's fucking, it's like a bomb he's carrying out. Yeah, he's carrying a bomb. He saved the life of teammate Danny Hoffman, who had been hit in the head by a wild pitch. So he must have picked up some, with the fire, he must have picked up some skills as far as doing CPR or whatever. He was arrested on bigamy charges. Jesus Christ. So at this point, he's married to a couple of ladies. Turns out he had forgotten to divorce his first wife. Rube? Yeah, he forgot. He also fled town to avoid charges after he attacked and badly injured his father-in-law. Because his father-in-law was like, what the fuck? You're married to someone else. And then he like tried to kill him. You're in trouble now. He was later cleared of all charges. But this is sort of the beginning of the end. This is sort of the beginning of the downside of the Rube. Okay. So it's gonna get sad. Okay. We're gleaming the Rube. Yeah, gleaming the Rube. He did lead his team to the 1905 World Series, but couldn't pitch because of an injury. And what animal bit him? Well, the injury happened because Rube was making fun of a teammate's straw hat. And they ended up getting in a fight on a cross-country train. On a train? Holy shit. Your straw hat's stupid. Hey Rube, stop. Stupid hat! Stop Rube! Your hat's dumb! And I don't like it! It's not funny. And I don't like it! That's probably exactly how it went. He's played shit-faced. Oh God. Rumors flew that Gamblers had gotten to Rube, paying him to keep him out of the series. Eventually, the story that a New York betting syndicate had put Waddell up in a Manhattan penthouse with a group of showgirls took hold, and the A's demolished the Giants four games to one. People now blame him for the loss and think that he's corrupt. So he went from being classic Philadelphia, he went for years being this awesome hero that everyone's drinking with and he's playing with the kids. A man of the people. And then he gets hurt and they're like, you fucking animal! Put him down! He was defended by Mack, but he can never overcome the rumors. The fans turn against him and he was traded 1908 to the St. Louis Browns. There he set a single game strikeout record of 16 against his former teammate. Jesus Christ. So his team came to town, his whole team. He fucking struck them all out. But other than that, he was pretty mediocre. They were trying to keep him out of trouble, so they hired him as a hunter for the off-season. What? So... I'm going to need you to break that down a little bit for me. So they didn't want to work at a bar or wrestling alligators, so they hired him as the team hunter and then he would go shoot animals and bring them back and the owners would eat them, the other people that worked with him. So they invented a job for him. They made up an occupation. The team hunter? You've never heard of a team hunter? I've never heard of a team hunter. Yeah, everyone's got them. You know, Rube, we're thinking of promoting you. Oh. Yeah, we want you to be team hunter. Oh, God. Yeah, and you just go out in them woods and you just kill animal and bring it back to us. That's really important. That's a big job. That's like GM. Okay, is that a straw hat? Nope. Okay. It was the first time he avoided scandal in years and he kept the team stocked with duck and venison, but he was drinking more and more. That's one of the downsides of being team hunter. In 1909 in a game against New York, he passed out on the mound. From heat? After giving up a home run. So he threw a ball, a guy hit it over the fence and then he laid down and took a nappy nap. I so want to see, I so want to see players picking up another guy off the mound because he's plowed. I want to see everything. And taking him off the field. It's the greatest thing ever. Sleeping. Well, fuck, I'm going to bed. Rube, Rube, Rube. Someone call the fire department and get them to drive by. So St. Louis released him in 2010. He found himself pitching in the Eastern League's Newark French. So now he's in Newark. So shit's not. No. That didn't pan out. Then he moved to Minneapolis to pay for Joe Cantillan's Millers. Now he's in minor league baseball. Okay. How old is he? I don't know. So he was 18. So he's like 30. Yeah, but then. I know, but he's 30. He's 30. True. But he's put a lot of miles on the odometer. He really did some living. Yeah. He's not a regular 30. He's been bitten by a lion. Right, right. Now he's got a really close manager with a close relationship with his manager. Okay. That seems important. Yeah. Because he couldn't take care of himself. So Joe, the manager, has him move into his house. Okay. And then in 1912, a local dam broke. Well, I mean, if I know our roof, I'm going to guess he's got to go help. A dam broke. It's time to rip off his regular plate clothes and get his fire uniform on. Well, he had, I'm sure he was sleeping in Rand. Yeah. He had a fire truck bed. He volunteered to stack sandbags to block the rushing stream, standing armpit deep in freezing waters for 13 hours. That's actually kills two birds with one stone though, because then he's not going to light the catcher on fire. No, he's not. He contracted pneumonia from which he never fully recovered. Jesus Christ. From then on, he was plagued by illness. Yeah, pneumonia. Which was made worse because it was nonstop drinking. Right. That'll hurt. He pitched poorly for the Minneapolis Millers in 1913, concerned by the drastic decline of his health. Joe sent him to San Antonio tuberculosis sanitarium in 1914. So that's not good. No, a turkey bullet. That's like a you're going to die now. Right place. So he died there on April Fool's Day 1914. He was 38. Can we just say that that's a great day for him to go? Right? Yeah. He died on April Fool's Day. It's a great day for me. I mean, it's perfect. Yeah. It couldn't be better. He'd be happy. So, OK, so he's 38. OK. He was penniless. OK. He was notorious for not being concerned about money. In his best season, he made $2,500, which was given to him $10 at a time by Connie Mack. Smart. You definitely want to be doing it like that. You don't want to give him $2,500. You know, he's going to be like, look, I bought a robot. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Rube. Rube. That's a garbage. No, no, no, no, no. It's silver. Me and my friend, a robot. We're going to solve crime murders. Oh, my God. Oh, Rube. Oh, Rube. Oh, sweet. Sweet little Rube. Oh, Jesus. Oh, fire engine. Oh, my God. He was buried in an unmarked grave in a San Antonio potter's field. What? How fucked up is that? That's so fucked up. A few months later, his baseball playing friends passed a hat and provided him with a gravestone. Former teammate. Oh, God. The Shrek. Yeah, yeah, the guy. The cracker. The cracker buddy. Yeah, the cracker guy. Provided the insightful epitaph for the headstone. Rube Waddell had only one priority to have a good time. Right? That seems pretty fitting. Yeah. They almost went with party machine. Shrek machine. When he died, he had no idea how many women he had married in his life. Wow. I mean, slept with. Sure. Yeah, right. Married too. That's crazy. So more than 10? Yeah. Yeah. 15 to 50. I don't know. Well, imagine he would probably just meet women in a drunken stupor and then marry them. Well, if you don't learn any facts. Yeah. When you're being brought up. Yeah. You could very easily think that you could marry anyone. Right. It was just like a sweet thing you did. No, this is like if Tarzan played baseball. Totally. Totally. Right down to the shout that probably he did behind the fire trucks. He did live at the right time though, because if this guy was alive today. Today? Get out of here. I mean, he wouldn't get anywhere near anything. Even being one of the greatest pitchers of all time, he wouldn't get near anything. No one would let him play. No. He would be like one of those guys who had a show on Spike. Yeah. He'd have a reality show. Totally. And he'd be, he'd just have his own league in a cornfield somewhere and people would try to come and hit him. He'd be like Kevin Costner in Field of Dreams, but the voice was fake. Wait, are you saying that voice wasn't fake in Field of Dreams? Well, no. It is real in the movie. Okay. Right? Do you believe it's real in real life? No, no. But in, no. Don't rube me. Don't make me rube. Bastard. So they would have nothing to do with him today. No matter how talented he was. But it's crazy that even with all that shit, don't you think that he still should be known as, I mean like, Babe Ruth, for instance, the greatest baseball player of all time, was a fucking alcoholic, a womanizer, just a glutton. And we know him. But this guy is known, if you bring up his name, he's known as the guy who chased the fire trucks. Like, he's not known as. 13 major league seasons, he led the league in strikeout seven times. He won the pennant in 1905, had a record of 27 and 10, seven shout outs and ERA of 1.48. ERA of 1.48 is fucking insane. And it's just, it is just that he chased too many fire trucks. And that he was a crazy booze hound who got bit by lions. Yes. But even with that, I think you get that on its own, that you can maybe play with that. It's the fire station trucks, firemen. Well what about going through the crowd and grabbing hot dogs and fighting people? Crazy. Crazy. For sure. But in that story, that was brought up one time. The amount of times that he chased fire trucks or slept at a fire department or wore firemen outfits was 10 to 15. No, yeah. So I get why that plagued him. Why wasn't he just a fireman? Why just, I don't understand how you couldn't possibly, nobody could talk him down from this. No. Nobody could say, Rube, listen. Imagine how much they tried. During the games, don't. Rube, please, during the games, don't. Do you know how many times he had that conversation? Oh, a thousand. Oh my God. Endless. Endless. Today. And still. Please don't chase the fire trucks. No, Rube. Just today of all days. Rube, when we hear a fire truck today, we're not chasing it, right? No. Don't chase it. Mm-hmm. That feels very noncommittal. I'm not going to put you out on the mound if you're going to chase it like I told you, Rube, so. I'm serious. You better not. Mm-hmm. My God, is that a fireman's uniform underneath that? Just red. God damn it. I like red. No, Rube. Do you hear that? Geez. I want to know how he got bit by the lion. He was petting it, right? He was probably trying to do something that you just shouldn't do with a lion. I mean, whatever it is, he probably looked at it like a big dumb cat. He's probably like, pretty kitty, make it purr. And then the lion was like, sir. Excuse me, sir. A dominant creature. I am a glorious animal. Glorious. Wrestling alligators. There you go. Wow. I think better than the story of Doc Ellis who pitched a no-hitter on Ashton. I agree, even though that is its own amazing story. That is a day. That is one day where a guy took Ashton and didn't know he was pitching a no-hitter. I think you show me a highlight reel of both these guys. One of them is going to be two hours, one of them will be ten minutes. Wow. How do you feel? I feel like more people should know about the movie. It should be a movie, right? That should absolutely be a movie. How is it not a fucking movie? I mean, it's just dark comedy. Well, you would need to be scaling it back. You'd be like, what are we going to lose? There's too much shit to cover. You would have to scale it back. What? Because it's insane. It doesn't stop. And we got to put the fire trucks in there. That's something. A lot of fire trucks. It is a period of this. It's a lot of the budget there. That's most of the budget there. Yeah. I don't know where you're going to find all those fire trucks. Fuck. If you have any topics you think, I'm mostly just doing American stuff right now. I might branch out. I'm trying to avoid politics. Yeah. Unless the story is really crazy, but I just don't want to get into all that shit. I don't want to be... That's just what mostly people do is rip on each other about politics. I hate all parts of it. There's a really crazy story that's happening in Mississippi right now that I might cover. It's fucking insane. But for the most part, I just think it's just fun. Well, I also think it's just... When you get involved in that, to me, I'm always like, if you step back from the world of politics, it's just all so fake and fabricated. Yeah. It's like us arguing about Disney characters. Yeah. But there's a lot of fucking idiots. Tons. But someday I might do one about stuff, just stuff Ronald Reagan has said. Oh. Or fucking W. Yeah. You could do Reagan, George, W Bush. We could do Reagan versus W. And you could put Tony Abbott in there as the Prime Minister of Australia right now. Oh yeah, yeah. And you would not be able to tell who's saying the dumber thing. My guess is you'd get confused between Abbott and Reagan a good amount. I have one. Trees cause pollution. Who said that? Oh, jeez. Well, see, that's not Bush. I know that's not Bush because that is misleading, not really just crazy and stupidly off the cuff. That's like an attempt to get... So I'll say Tony Abbott. Reagan. Wow. What a fucker. Who said... Alzheimer. Who said the Greeks Grecians? I'll go with Abbott. That is George W. Bush. And who said that missiles after fire can be put back in the submarines, can be recalled? Reagan? Yeah. Okay. We will be able to retract the missiles back out of the submarines. All right. That's the dollop. I hope you enjoyed your baseball lesson. Yep. I did. He's one of my favorites. He's the best ever. That's why. I know why. All right. Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollop Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv, August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there. The next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas, if that doesn't work for you, join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night, I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club, August 27th. Go to GarethReynolds.com to get tickets for all those dates. I love you.