 God, you wanna look at a dude? I'll do one bump. People say this is funny? Not Gary Gera. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not gonna become the Tickling Podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. The Dollop, that was our theme song. It's really good. It's music by Colin McCoy, edited by Vicky Pezza. That's it. Yeah. I didn't hear it. Nope, you certainly didn't. I was gonna pretend I did, but... You did not hear it. I pretended it was going pretty bad. A smallup is what I'm calling them. Smallup. Little facts. Sure, okay. I was just reading that people in New York are putting up fake goodwill bins all over the city so people will throw clothes in and then they just take the clothes and sell them at other stores. People are fucking horrible. I love when people wiggle around rules. You know what I mean? We always make these rules and they're pretty good, but there's always a way for somebody to be like, nah. I know how to fuck with that. I'm across the border. But it's probably like the mafia. They've probably dropped down so low. Whereas they used to rob everybody. Who pays the overalls? Everybody at the fish market pays me $1,000 and now it's like, hey, you want these T-shirts? Members only, members only, baby. That's right. This is one, two left converse. What do you think of Gap jeans? Hey, you like that? Now what do you think of Jordache? Because that's what we have. All right, so you're a baseball fan. I like baseball, but it's lower tier sports for me. Okay, so because we have so many listeners in Australia, I'm going to, I'm going to briefly explain some of the rules of baseball really quick. All I need to do is talk about the pitcher because this is about a pitcher. Okay. You have a very devilish smile. So baseball started in the like 1870s or something and quickly a professional league developed. And one of our greatest pitchers of all time is named Cy Young. And he pitched around the turn of the century, 1900 and not the 2000. No. And we have an award named after him, Cy Young. So that's like the best pitcher in baseball will win that. And you know, it's, it's strikeouts are a big deal. You throw three balls past a guy, it's a strikeout. That's a big deal. Yeah. So that's what pitchers, the best pitchers strike out a lot of guys. Yes. When great pitchers do it, they throw no hitters where nobody gets hits. And that's a huge deal. Huge deal. Huge deal. So that, I mean, that's basically all you need to know. Good. Because we're going to talk about Rube Waddell. Man. I don't know. I will. Rube is my favorite baseball player of all time. Okay. Yeah. Okay. I think you're overwhelmed with the goodness. I can't even, the story of Rube Waddell is so okay. He's one of the greatest strikeout pitchers in the history of baseball. Okay. And he was, beginning in 1898, he set just about every pitching record there was. Okay. Now that's the exact same time that Cy Young is pitching. That's interesting. So you think you would know about him, right? And I wonder why I don't. He was one of the most feared pitchers in baseball. Okay. And he was an amazing idiot. What do you mean? He was pretty dim. He was literally not that smart. Okay. But I mean, a lot of athletes aren't smart. No. But I think, I think it's as we peel this onion, you're going to find out just how not smart he is. The fact that his name's Rube is great too. Well, that wasn't the original name he was given. That might have been a nickname given to him by one of his teammates. Okay, yeah. So that reflects his IQ. There's very little known about his youth. All right. But we know he grew up in Pennsylvania and he did not have a formal education. Okay. So he's just a guy, you know, right off the hayseed truck. Sure. I want to emphasize again that he did not have a formal education. Oh, okay. So that's the thing I should be very aware of. So he claimed that his childhood hobby was throwing rocks at birds. Oh, man. That's how he learned how to pitch. Oh, my God. Okay. Yeah, sure. Yeah. So he's, you know, that was his hobby. Sure. His hobby was to throw rocks. At birds. At birds. Yeah. So that was the thing he did. Okay. Who needs books when you have that? Right? If you're a parent, why would you want to have that kid do anything else? No, obviously, you know that's going to translate. That will obviously translate. I see my kid at school. I'm like, just go out and throw rocks at birds. What is it going to take for him to go kill some birds with rocks? And you know he was. You know he was killing them. Oh, for sure. Because if he is this amazing pitcher. No, he wasn't training to pitch. He was just a little shit. And then like a byproduct of that was like, hey, I have a really strong right arm. So by age 18, he was ready for the minor leagues in Butler, Pennsylvania. Okay. Which is before you become a professional baseball player, you start out in the minors and you work your way up through this system that there's three levels to it. He built his reputation of being very good natured, but he was very simple minded. Catcher Jack Nelson gave him the nickname Rube, which was reserved for Hicks. Right. And it's struck. It's stuck immediately. Everyone's like, fuck. Yes, that guy's. You're rude. Yeah. Okay. Look out the bar. Oh, bird bird bird. Give me that rock. Give me that rock. Throw it at him. The Rube also didn't quite understand the rules of baseball when he got there. Now, see, that's a red flag for a player. So in baseball, if you hit the ball and the pitcher, you know, like a ground ball to the pitcher, he picks up, he throws it to first. And if the ball gets to the guy at first before you do, you're out. Yes. But the Rube, when he started, would throw the ball at the runner and hit the runner. Well, now let me ask you this. Was the team called something like the Cardinals? Because then he's just going back to his boyhood game of rock throwing at bird. True. That is true. So. No, it wasn't. Can you imagine a coach seeing a guy be like, no, no, what are you doing? And then and then he would say the batter's out where I come from when you hit him. So he's just like this kid from the fucking crazy mountains of Pennsylvania. You hit the guy with the. Can you imagine how horrible it was to play in that league? You hit the ball and the people just fucking throwing this. Just the opposing team. We're like, ah, the pitchers throwing the balls at the players. Yeah, that's how we go. Well. So then his next opportunity, and I don't know why this happened, but Volant College, which I don't think is in existence anymore, VOL, A&T, they great school. So this is when things are different. So they wanted the great players to play for them. So they would like make offers to for players to minor leagues. They would go. Yeah, they would like they would like trying to get right. It's the opposite of today. So so this guy who has had no education is dumb as a fucking dumb as the rocks that he's throwing. He's as stupid as a rock. He's trying is now maybe going to college. I mean, is this a reality show or what? They offered him free tuition and board. What tuition and what and board? I'm not bored. I'm having fun. And a dollar a game. Uh huh. And free tobacco. Oh, I like backy. This is my right hand. My throwing one. The college has had seven innings per game. He averaged 15 strikeouts. That's pretty great. That's insane. Yeah. Wait, I mean, how many is that? That's because there's three innings. So that's seven sets, 21. So he was there six six players were doing something other than striking. Yeah. OK, that's good. More than once. He called for all the players to leave the field and he would pitch with no defense behind him. What? Like, do you know how fucking mad that is? And who can just see everybody off the field? Is the coach a scarecrow? I don't fucking know what's happening. And everyone just leave the field and he's just pitch and then strike the guys out. OK, well, you should explain why that's crazy, too, because you have all the people behind the pitcher who are there to feel the ball and get him out. And basically the pitcher is saying, like, if you hit it beyond me, you win the game. Waddell would celebrate three strike innings by cartwheeling or walking on his hands or somersaulting off the field back to the dugout. Now I'm starting to love this guy. Yeah, because I am so that would be the greatest thing ever. This is great. A guy just somersaulting. Yes, a cartwheeling grown man who can't read, who's telling the rest of his team to leave the field cartwheeling and somersaulting when he does well. Yeah, that's Rube. The other team must want to kill him. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. The other fans. Can you imagine their fans be like, motherfucker? No respect. So he earned reputation and next he signed for five hundred dollars with Louisville in 1986. I think that 1896. All right. I think they were the Cardinals. Oh, boy. I might be a paradox for him. He's going to throw rocks at himself. I am a bird. I don't know what to do. Oh, I hit myself with the face. Where's Rube? He killed. He stoned himself to death. OK, so club manager Fred Clark find Rube fifty dollars for excessive drinking and Rube quit the team. That was after two days. Oh, wow. OK. I'm a huge fan. I am so in how this is not a movie. Oh, my God. Yeah. So the Rube packed up and had I mean, the first day is like unpacking. He went there. He unpacked. He got shit faced. Yeah. He got fine. He's gone. Packed up and he left two days, two days. I mean, that's really like probably like three hours where he could just get himself thrown off the team. And imagine what he must have done. Big loaded. Oh, yeah. To get kicked off the baseball. You get kicked off a baseball team for drinking. He's cartwheeling and telling his team to leave the field sober. Also, this is a team that saw what he was doing at the college cartwheeling and telling everybody to leave the field. They went, that guy is going to be a good guy. That's our guy. And then he drinks. They're like, wait a minute. Meet the new face of the franchise. Does anyone else smell gin? So he packed up and headed for Detroit. Oh, you're there. His career lasted nine games when he was fined fifty dollars for playing at a sandlot game with local kids on his day off. He was fine for that. Yeah, because they don't want him to get hurt. Oh, OK. And Rube being against fines. May I guess he quit the team? So he left. Now, no one knows where he went after this period. He was gone for a few months. Wow. He just vanished. And then later that winter, someone spotted him wrestling alligators in a traveling circus. All righty. Wow. Right. Yeah. So I mean, you thought throwing baseball to the kids in the sandlot was bad for the career. Holy shit. Yeah. I mean, I mean, what else are you going to do in the in the winter? Yeah. No, because this is a time when baseball players had to make money in the offseason. Right. So why not wrestle some alligators? Look, I mean, it was it was either that or be a welder. I mean, OK. So I mean, that's so great. It's the best thing ever. What was your summer job selling fridges over at Sears? I wrestled gators. So I'm sorry. Yeah, me or my my thing. But I wrestled alligators all summer. OK. Yeah. I'm trying to pitch again. OK. Yeah, we got I guess we got you. Bird. Bird. What else reappeared in the 19 and the 1899 season with the Western League's Columbus Grand Rapids team? And he quickly became a fan favorite. All right. For two reasons. First, he's Rube. He won 27 games. All right. And second, he was complete fucking lunatic. Oh, my God. The Rube was known for arriving just before game time in his street clothes. So normally in baseball, all the players go out and practice hitting and they practice fielding. And it's like an hour. Oh, yeah. And fans come down and they and they watch it and they get they get balls signed. But it's like a big thing. It's a tradition. So he wouldn't do any of that. He just show up right at game time. And then he would stroll. He would stroll through the grandstands so he wouldn't come to the players. Oh, my God. He would come through the grandstands, walk through the stadium, walk through all the fans, raising a commotion. As he went through, he would grab people's beers and slam them. He would eat their hot dogs. Oh, my God. And sometimes he would start fights with fans. I mean, he's made himself unfindable. You cannot find him. I mean, I pay so much money to see. But also by the same token, if you're a fan and like somebody like drinks your beer or eats your food, you're not like, hey, it's awesome. You're like, buddy, that's all the fucking field. Hey, asshole, you make money pitching. I came here to see you. Don't eat my shit. It's going to start 20 minutes late. You lost my beer and my fucking hot dog. Oh, great. My kids crying. Oh, God. I got to fight him. And then you have to fight the room. Often he'd throw free peanuts to kids. That's nice. Nice. It said he would usually change into his uniform as he ran across the diamond. Oh, my God. So did he also went streaking? He didn't wear underwear. Wait. Oh, my. Let's get all the details out now. Get him out of the table. What else? We have a stick in his ass that he pretended was a tail. So essentially you have a you have a big, dumb guy running through the stands, drinking beer, and then he would shed all his clothes and change into his uniform on the diamond. And win the game. And then be the best guy out there. Oh, my God. Every everything, everything before the running along the field and changing, I can get in a way. That is sort of just like, yeah, just get your uniform change. You change somewhere else. There's a locker room. He doesn't have time, though. He's out there. He just wants to play the game. No time. I have time to eat hot dogs and beat up fans. But changing, I'm going to need to combine that and approaching the diamond. He was easily distracted. So opposing opposing fans would hold up puppies. Oh, and he would run towards them. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. So so. Wait. So he'd be pitching and a guy would be up a bat. So would hold up a puppy to run over to pet it or grab it. I mean, he's now gone from being really not smart to maybe lobotomized. He could have been. Oh, the lobotomies weren't invented yet. But I would imagine if they were, he might have gotten lobotomized. It sounds like he might have invented them on accident somehow. He was also distracted by shiny objects. I mean. And they would put him in a trance on the mound where he would just sit there and stare at them. So you could go to a game and hold up like a spoon and he would just stare at it. They would be like, come on, let's play. He just now hit him with the puppy. And his head just explodes. There he goes. The rub would also just leave in the middle of games to go fishing. Wait, what the fuck? I mean, really, it's all real. What is the manager of the team doing? What do you do? He's the best player besides. I mean, he's the best player at baseball, except sometimes he in the middle of the game, he just walks off the mound because he wants to go fishing. What are you going to do? Because he gave you half a good game. At tonight's game, there are no puppies or shiny objects allowed near the pitcher. All right, Rub. I think you hit him with a stink ball right here. Let's get out of here. I'm going to go fishing. I'm sorry. I will go fishing now. No, we're in the middle of the. I'm done today. We're in the middle. I got to fish before it's dark. Bye. I'm going to change. Changing. Oh, God, there it is. We need a new pitcher. There is a pitcher who just always be like, oh, coming in again. Should we find him? He. No, don't find him. OK, so this is the best. This is the most well known fact about Rub Waddell. OK. If a fire truck went by the stadium, I'm going to need to stop you. I'm. I. I. I. Doesn't matter what the rest of the statement is. This is a problem. OK. If a fire truck went by the stadium, he would chase it. No. Every time. What? You would always chase a fire truck. I'm starting to think. No matter where you are. He would always chase a fire truck. I'm starting to think. No matter where it was. Does he maybe have a dog brain? He likes puppies, shiny things get him and fire trucks. Well, he wasn't formally educated. Yeah, but still, does your brain become a canine brain? He would only eat out of bowls on the floor. He had to have a little door in his regular door to crawl outside to go make boom. Oh, God, I would love to see that. I'm just running out of the stadium and all the players like, oh, fuck. I mean, if the man the manager be like, look, if we can get through today with no fire trucks, no puppies, no shiny objects, and he doesn't want to go fishing, we got to shop. But he like also if you're because this is when fire fire stations were they weren't public. So you would pay them like if you had a house, you would give them a monthly fee in case your house caught on fire and they would come and put it out. So if you didn't pay a fee, they would just show up and let it burn. So potentially you could pay the fire department just be ordering. Yeah, you could just order. Yeah. Go by the stadium at four and then the rub would run away. Rub rub now rub. Where you guys going? Louisville owner, owner men. So this is back now. Now he's probably going to go back to Louisville. Right. So he's been he's been playing for other teams. He's been in Grand Rapids. So Louisville owner manager Barney Dreyfus got word. No, sorry. Was he not in Louisville before? He was. He was. Okay. That's where he got it. Right. But so now there's a different, you know, manager. Yeah. A different guy wants to roll the dice on his career. So they got word of a success and brought him down to Louisville. Dreyfus heard the National League was going to consolidate and shut down his Louisville franchise. So he bought this guy bought the Pittsburgh Pirates. Okay. And traded the entire team to Pittsburgh. Uh huh. And then just put a bunch of shitty players in Louisville. So when they shut down the little franchise, he'd be like, well, I got a team over here. Okay. So he just basically pulled the fast one. And so but that all of a sudden made Rube suddenly in a really big city. So he's never been in a big city. Okay. So now he is playing baseball in front of very large crowds. I don't like that for Rube. And he's playing with Honus Wagner, a huge historical baseball player and Fred Clark. So he's he's with a good team. One of the great position in a great city. Yeah, he's in one of the original eight teams of baseball. I just worry, Dave, that there's going to be too many things to distract our little dog. We'll see. We'll see. I got a bad feeling. Why don't we just see what happens? I just want to say I'm on record. I don't feel like I don't know why you say that because it's called the Cy Young Award. So far. One teammate of this era recalled Rube soaking his left arm in buckets of ice for hours at a time, claiming sincerely that he feared he'd burn up the catcher's glove if he didn't cool it off. So he thought so he does no science. No, he's not good with physics and science. He doesn't get that you he'd seen cartoons. And his lots of them a ball can catch on fire and burn up another person if you throw it. Rube, hold on. I got to keep awesome arm otherwise I'm going to hurt that poor catcher. Lot him on fire. What I'll read the lead the league in 1900 with a two point three seven year. Wow. He's beating Cy Young at this point. He's better than he's better than the guy. The award is named after Cy Young. And he's got this guy's better. Yeah, I got a bad feeling. But he racked up an unimpressive eight and 13 record. OK, it was part of that because there were so many fire trucks. Many of his defeats came as a result of his high rate of errors. OK, most people believe he committed so many errors because of his habit of drinking at local taverns as a pregame ritual where he was going down to suck down, suck down many beers and put on an apron and play bartender. Oh, my God. Aren't you pitching today? Yeah. Oh, man. How many fingers do I have? Oh, my God. And I like a ritual. Yeah. A pregame ritual. Got to get not that he would go every now and then and have a pop. But here's the crazy thing. He's still pitching great. Yeah. But when they hit the ball at him, he can't throw it to first because he can't pick it up because he's so. So the thing you can do is throw it really hard at a very small space. Yeah, the guy's just like, all right, guys, we're just going to bunt today. Rooms hammered. Oh, my God. Just bunting back. I just by laughing their asses off. And then someone holds a puppy up in room just like falls in his own dugout. I mean, there's a lot of hurdles in this guy. What else? Player manager Fred Clark suspended him in late June of that year. It turns out the rub like to pack pistols. And one day he threatened to shoot his manager full of holes. And I like how he's still not getting fined. I love that he's a drunk guy. He's drunk. Who's bringing guns to the loaded guy threatening to kill and kill. Oh, my God. You'd be like, well, I thought we had problems when he was just showing up shit face for games. He's going to kill me. So he was he was kicked off the team and found himself playing for an independent team in Pux and Tony. Oh, Pux and Tony. Yeah, that's where the groundhog, the groundhog. Pennsylvania legendary manager Connie Mack upon hearing of Rooms availability, Amelia signed him for his franchise, the Milwaukee A's. OK, my home city. Yeah, we're now in your area. Yeah. So that you should know about him. Yeah. Well, I think we probably refer to him as Monkey Paw. Sounds like people love love at first sight. Yeah. Like now under Mack, what else finally began to excel in one of his most famous feats after pitching a 17 inning game, the Rube turned around and pitched the second game of a doubleheader, completely shutting out the opposing team. Jesus. So he pitched. So normally today, a pitcher will pitch seven innings is the norm. Yeah. Sometimes eight if he's doing real, sometimes nine if he's doing awesome. But generally, generally, like if someone throws 125 pitches, that is like way too much. That's what that's the lie. People like, you might have done too much. This guy threw triple the normal amount. Jesus. In one day. Oh, my God. And shut them out and was had a dog's brain and had a dog's brain. I mean, if yeah, if you're the other team, you're like, Jesus Christ. Now, why did he do it? Why did he do it on that day? What do you think was his motivation? Oh, Jesus. Connie Mack promised him an all expense paid three day fishing trip. So he performed that's why his feats in baseball. That's why he's doing better in Milwaukee. He's surrounded by beer and the guys knows how to work him. He's putting carrots on sticks. Three day fishing trip. Yeah. Sure. I'll soil my career for three days and I'll keep throwing only D4 games straight. We're only doing two today. OK, you sure I'll keep pitching after the game. The first game went 17 innings and he still pitched. That's two games already. Two games. Jesus Christ. Then another game. What his fascination, his fascination with fire departments continued throughout his time with the A's and he now was routinely wearing red under his clothing just in case the bell would ring. So wait, wait, wait. No, no, no, no. Because now he ain't just chasing them. Now he's taking off his clothes and he's all coming red and he's helping them. Super firemen. So now the middle of the game, if the fire engine goes by, he becomes a fireman. He's a fireman now. Sorry. You talk to the fire department about this? No. She just like showing up to be like, aren't you pitching? What's the problem here? Where are we going to get it? Let's go. He looked at rocks at that fire. Dirty fire deserves rocks. Oh, my God. Yeah. So it sounded like it sounded like he's straightened himself out to other teams. So the pirates demanded his return. They were like, he's still in a contract with us. We didn't actually fire him. He just threatened to shoot someone. He just left or whatever happened. So within two games, he was dropped by. Dropped by them. And so then, OK, he was dropped by Milwaukee. He was dropped by. Oh, fuck. You know, sell him, Lisa or drop him off the bridge. As long as you get him off my team. Oh, so. So. They got him back. Pittsburgh got him back. So Pittsburgh. And then he was there for two days. Right. So it's very hard to follow. Because he has a lot of he has a lot of two day stints. Yeah. As a matter of fact, that might be a good nickname instead of the rub. Old two day stints. So after two days back at the pirate, what the fuck could he have done? Fred Clark yelled at the owner, sell him, release him, drop him off the Monohiga bridge. Do anything you like to him. So long as you get him off my team. So he was not wanted. Yeah. Is he just holding a grudge because he threatened to murder him? Kind of petty, isn't it? So he spent the majority of the 1901 season with the Chicago orphans. Wow. Horrible team name. Horrible team name. Orphans. Unless they were orphans, then it's all that is terrific. If the orphan and then if he goes to the orphans, that's my favorite team ever. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, my God. The bad news bears in 1901. But I'm assuming they weren't all orphans. No, that's just a terrible name. The owner was just the this is a team of people, people whose parents have died. The guy walking the stands like Grohl. The reginal get your girl. The original name was Chicago, dead parents. Good. Good. Were the Chicago stillborns? Let's get them. But he was suspended for erratic behavior. Wait, Rube? A lot of that was because he kept chasing the fire engines. I mean, at some point. At some point. Yeah. He got a 13 and five, 15 record, mostly blamed on fire trucks going by the stadium. It's slowly becoming evident that really the big problem here was fire. Much like what Frankenstein feared. If they could keep the fires under control, then the Rube would have a better record. Yeah. But I mean, I can't believe that nobody was able to, over the span of time, get through to him. Yeah. That just don't chase those. What do you mean? Don't chase the fire trucks, Rube? Why? Please stop running after fire trucks and pitch. You're not a fireman. Right. But they go by. Yes. And then I go by. That's the part I'm having a huge problem with. Yeah. Well, people help. People need to help. OK. Well, I'm glad we did this. OK. I hear one. Yeah. Bye, Rube. He later spent a month playing semi pro ball in Wisconsin and then traveled to the West Coast. Once in California, he refused to leave, signing on with a Los Angeles franchise for the 1902 season. OK. Then in mid-June, two Pickerton guards. Sorry. Working for the Philadelphia A's. Oh, boy. Connie Mack boss tracked him down and dragged it back to Pennsylvania. Took him? So now. Why don't they just get a fire truck to drive by and chase like have him chase it back to the old club? This isn't the team that fired him after two days last time. This is the team before that. Yeah. He wanted him back. So they kidnapped him. I mean, it's not like you could just make you can't just take a guy back to work in another state. That's called kidnapping. Slavery. Yeah. Kidnapping. Yep. Yep. That's slavery. He's been fired so many times. Do you think when he got fired at one point ever, he misunderstood and was like excited? Fire fire fire fire. No, no, Rube. Leave. Leave. Oh, oh, oh, the bad fire. So they brought him back to Pennsylvania and Mack, who was considered the only one to be able to control him. And he really wasn't able to all that. No, no one was able to control. I mean, nobody could take the fire truck out of his heart. A huge problem. So basically, Mack brought him back and tried to, like, put him under house arrest. Like, that's that's how they figured. Great idea. That's how they figured to take care of it. Yes. So this is when this is when pro athletes had two jobs. They play baseball and then they do their what a regular job. So Mack forbid the Rube from alligator wrestling in the offseason, which he was still doing. Why? I can't. So instead, for additional income, he started playing rugby for a Pennsylvania team. OK, so that's his offseason job. That better. And now everything went awesome. OK, so he's like getting all of his energy out. He's playing two sports. He's never not playing a sport. He's like a kid. OK. And so this is a years of stability that he led the league in strikeouts for the next five years. Now, this is when Cy Young is playing. Yeah, he's leading. He's pitching better than five years. Five years. It's a long time. Five years. Cooperstown historian Lee Allen described 1903 in the life of Ruud Waddell. He began that year sleeping in a firehouse in Camden, New Jersey. I mean, it's just insane. He's just. And a firehouse is like the Dalmatian and ended it tending bar in a saloon in Wheeling, West Virginia. In between those events, he won 22 games for the Philadelphia A's, courted, married and became separated from Mary Wayne Skinner, saved a woman from drowning, accidentally shot a friend in the hand and. And was bitten by a lion. That was a year. Yeah. Dude, I mean, wait, I mean, that had to happen to the way. Wait, I mean, it was the circus. He got bitten by he saved a woman from drowning. He shot his friend in the hand. He was a bartender, played rugby, sleeping in a firehouse. He got married and divorced, basically. Yeah. And got bitten by a lion. And got bitten by a lion. I mean, right. Do we know how he got bitten by a lion? Nope. It's just it's just in the it's just in the in the Hall of Fame. It says that shot his friend in the hand. I know why the wife left. Yeah. That year sounds like a little shaky. Yeah. It wasn't a great marriage. So now he's playing legendary baseball and his only competition on the mound was the Hall of Famer contemporary Cy Young. That was his only competition at the time. No one else is as good as those two guys. OK, except one was a normal human and the other one was crazy. Yeah. One had a dog brain and one was a man. His popularity skyrocketed. The citizens of Philadelphia loved him. Of course. Oh, how would you know people who are from other places? Philadelphia has the most horrendous sport sports fans in the country. They are. They they they used to throw batteries. They embrace how horrible they are. They really they wouldn't even be offended by. No, they would. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. I'll never forget when when the Giants won the World Series and Tim Lintzkin was walking off the mound. And they're just all these people holding up signs above the dugout saying how horrible his teeth are. Oh, God. Yeah. Yeah. And then he and then he shot him out and won the game. Oh, just just like four people holding up signs about his crooked teeth. Philadelphia. That's why we need them. Someone's got to do it. So Philadelphia delighted in a star who would show up at saloons and then work at the bar. The fact he was known to to play almost as much ball with local kids as with professional counterparts endeared him to the city. So now they're letting him play with kids. When you say no to that, he wrestles alleging. So let him do it. Yeah, that's like the least trouble he can get. Yeah. Let him play ball with the kids. Yeah. You stopped him from doing what? Playing ball with kids. He might hurt his arm. You moron. Have you any idea what you've just done? He's going to try. He's going to get bit by a lion now. He was especially popular with local firefighters who actually put him up in local fire houses. For data days at a time. So he was basically living at fire houses around Philadelphia. I mean, I mean, come on. We just come on. He's so cute. Can he just stop this? Firemen. He's like a four year old. I know he is like a lot of people believe that it was because of the firefighters that the rube earned his reputation for heroism. OK, after saving two men from drowning while on a duck hunting trip. Now, wait, he's already saved a woman from drowning. He saved people all the time. So now he's saved two other men from drowning. OK. Stories of the rubes perching for life saving began to circulate. It is believed that the rube may have throughout his life saved as many as 13 lives. Shut the fuck up. What? He's a fucking hero. Yeah, he's just he's so simple. He's so simple. He's so simple. He was always on alert. Danger. Yes. Winning. He's a lion. Pet lion. Pet lion. Oh, lion. Fruit punch hand. He was always on alert. The Philadelphia Daily News wrote in nineteen out of five how he was on a houseboat cocktail party when he heard someone scream for help. OK. Without a moment's hesitation, rubed dove into the frigid waters and succeeded in rescuing a passing log, a passing log. Yeah. The person who screamed was on the boat. He just jumped in and grabbed a log. Look, you don't you don't save 13 lives by waiting to find out. You know, sometimes you're going to get a lot. Sometimes you got to get hypothermia and rescue wood. Oh, look, you guys, I got her. Oh, she's OK, everyone. She'll be fine. Hopefully she don't catch on fire. OK, so he's popular, right? Yes, I would. I would guess that this man would be popular. So what happens to players when they're super popular in America? Well, they are their career. Yeah. The other career, obviously, they run for political office, perhaps. Rube took a turn at acting. Oh, boy. He toured the nation in the vaudeville play The Stain of Guilt and received critical acclaim. Oh, my God. They did not cheer his acting because he was allowed by his fellow actors to improvise all his lines. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Since he was incapable of remembering them. Oh, my God. Oh, yes. Yes. Oh, to be there. Oh, to see a man who chases fire trucks improvise. Why, sir, have you taken my beautiful Bridget? You know, you got a lot of anger. Yes, that is darn you, scoundrel. I'm going to leave and hug that lady. Can you imagine? It's the greatest thing ever. Making up his line. I mean, as a professional actor, who would probably be like standing there just like, all right, now, wait for that void look to just vanish for a moment. Here we go. Now reply with my line. Yeah, it would be. They would have nothing. Nothing in common. Maybe you should ask me where you want to go later. He was lauded for his ability to, quote, throw the villain twice as far as Kyle Ballou. So I know Kyle Ballou is but but he was picking up the actor who played the villain and heaving him across the stage. Improv. Yes, I am. He was able to parlay his success as an actor into higher wages at the ballpark. Wow. Because now he was a big star. He's a star. He's a star. In 1904, he got one hundred and fifty yearly pay raise from the Philadelphia Athletics. All right. So he's rolling in it, right? Yep. That year. I don't like him with money. I'll say that. Fair. Totally fair. That year, Rube also inspired one of the first extended major league contract negotiations on record. OK. Surprised, right? Yeah. Because it doesn't seem like he would be capable of negotiating. No. A contract. I I have a feeling he didn't or something. His catcher and roommate, Ossie Schreckengost, was the one who was negotiating the contract. Ball players generally room two to a room while on the road. They actually still do that. They still share the Shrek couldn't handle the nighttime habits of the Rube and refused to renew his contract until the A's inserted a no eating crackers in bed cloths. Because back then they shared a bed. I mean, they shared a bed. Yeah. Back then you'd sleep in the same bed and he was eating crackers in bed. And so they put it in the contract pounding crackers to the point where that is a sticking point in your contract. I'm just not going to be next to him eating crackers anymore. Me in 1904, Rube set baseball's all time strikeout record at three hundred and forty nine. Wow. Which said for 61 years, the 1905 season saw an epic duel of the pitchers, Rube and Cy Young in a 20 inning throw fast. So for 20 innings, they went head to head. Really? Give up a run. Jesus. Rube took the game ball, probably the most sought after baseball in years and gave it away for free booze at a local tavern. Jesus Christ. Can you imagine that ball would be the most historical ball? I mean, one of the most extraordinary and all of baseball is without question. And he gave it away for some beers and he gave it away for like a couple of shots. I think I know why they call him the Rube. And then after he died, every bar in Philadelphia would be like, I have the ball. No one actually knows what the ball is. That's kind of good. In 1905, Rube's old ways started to come back. During one weekend, Rube was cited as a hero for preventing a serious fire in a crowded department store. He picked up a blazing oil stove and carried it from the building. What? Is he Forrest Gump? Yeah, but he's like a giant Forrest Gump. He's like Forrest Gump in like a Hulk body. Forrest Hulk. Forrest Hulk. Just picking up a flaming gas stove. For oil stove. I mean, a highly flammable stove. It's fucking it's like a bomb. He's carrying a bomb. He saved the life of teammate Danny Hoffman, who had been hit in the head by a wild pitch. So he must have picked up some with the fire. I mean, he must have picked up some skills as far as doing CPR or whatever. He was arrested on bigamy charges. Jesus Christ. So at this point, he's married a couple of ladies. Turns out he had forgotten to divorce his first wife. Rube? Yeah, he forgot. He also fled town to avoid charges after he attacked and badly injured his father-in-law. Because his father-in-law was like, what the fuck? You're married to someone else. And then he like tried to kill him. You're in trouble now. He was later cleared of all charges. But this is sort of the beginning of the end. This is sort of the beginning of the downside of the group. OK, so it's getting a sad. OK. We're gleaming the room. Yeah, gleaming the room. They lead his team to the 1905 World Series, but couldn't pitch because of an injury. What animal bit him? Well, the injury happened because Rube was making fun of a teammate straw hat. And they ended up getting in a fight on a cross country train. On a train. Holy shit. You straw hat stupid. Hey Rube, stop. Stupid hat. Stop Rube. Your hat's dumb. And I don't like it. That's probably exactly how it went. He's pretty shit faced. Oh God. Rumors flew that gamblers had gotten to Rube, paying him to keep him out of the series. Eventually, the story that a New York betting syndicate had put Waddell up in a Manhattan penthouse with a group of showgirls took hold and the A's demolished the Giants four games to one. So people now blame him for the loss and think that he's corrupt. Right. So he went from being classic Philadelphia. He went for years being this awesome hero that everyone's drinking with and he's playing with the kids. A man of the people. And then he gets hurt and they're like you fucking animal. Put him down. That's exactly. He was defended by Mack, but he can never overcome the rumors. The fans turn against him and he was traded 1908 to the St. Louis Browns. OK. There he set a single game strikeout record of 16 against his former teammate. Jesus Christ. So the team came to town, his whole team. He's just fucking struck him on you. Oh, but he other than that, he was pretty mediocre. They were trying to keep him out of trouble. So they hired him as a hunter for the season for the offseason. What? So I'm going to need you to break that down a little bit. So they didn't want to work at a bar or wrestling alligators. So they so they hired him as the team hunter and then he would go shoot animals and bring them back and the owners would eat eat them. The other people that they invented a job for him. They made up an occupation. The team hunter never heard of a team hunter. I've never heard of a team hunter. Oh, everyone's got them. You know, we're thinking of promoting you. Oh, yeah. We want you to be team hunter. Oh, yeah. And you just go out in the woods and you just kill animal and bring it back to us. And that's really important. That's a big job. That's like GM. OK, is that a straw hat? Nope. OK. It was the first time he avoided scandal in years and he kept the team stocked with duck and venison. But he was drinking more and more. That's one of the downsides of being team hunter in 1909 in a game against New York. He passed out on the mound from he after giving up a home run. So he threw a ball. A guy hit it over the fence and he laid down and took a nappy nap. I so want to see. I so want to see players picking up another guy off the ground. Everything. I want to see everything. Taking him off the field. Just it's the greatest thing ever. Sleeping. Well, fuck, I'm going to bed. Rube, Rube, Rube. Someone call the fire department to get him to drive by. Whoo. So St. Louis released him in 2010. He found himself pitching in the Eastern League's Newark, France. So now he's in Newark. Oh, shit's not. No, that didn't pan out. Then he moved to Minneapolis to pay for Joe Cantt, Tillam's, Millers. Now he's in minor league baseball. OK. How old is he? I don't know. So I like. Well, he was 18. And so he's not he's like 30. Yeah. But then he's I know. But yeah, 30. 30. True. But he's put a lot of miles on the odometer. He really did some living. Yeah. He's not a regular 30. He's a bit been bitten by a lion. Right. Right. He now he's got a really close manager with a close relationship with his manager. OK. That seems important. Yeah. Because he couldn't take care of himself. So no. Joe, the manager, has him move into his house. OK. And then in 1912, a local dam broke. Well, I mean, if I if I know our room, I'm going to guess he's got to go help. A dam broke. It's time to rip off his regular like play clothes and get his fire uniform on. Well, he had read I'm sure he was sleeping in red. Yeah. He had a fire truck bed. He volunteered to stack sandbags to block the rushing stream, standing on pit deep in freezing waters for 13 hours. That's actually kills two birds with one stone, though, because then he's not going to light the catcher on fire. No, he's not. He contracted pneumonia from which he never fully recovered. Jesus Christ. From then on, he was plagued by injury illness. Yeah. Pneumonia, which was made worse because it was nonstop drinking. Right. That'll hurt. He pitched poorly for the Minneapolis Millers in 1913. Concerned by the drastic decline of his health, Joe sent him to San Antonio Tuberculosis Sanitarium in 1914. So that's not good. Now, a turkey bullet. That's like you're going to die. Now. Right. Place. So he died there on April Fool's Day, 1914. He was 38. And we just say that that's a great day for him to go. Right. Yeah. He died on April Fool's Day. Great day. I mean, it's perfect. Yeah. It couldn't be better. He'd be happy. So, OK, so he's 38. OK. He was penniless. OK. He was notorious for not being concerned about money. In his best season, he made twenty five hundred dollars, which was given to him ten dollars at a time by Connie Mack. Smart. You definitely want to be doing it like that. You don't want to give him twenty five hundred dollars. You know, he's going to be like, look, I bought a robot. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Rube. Rube. That's a garbage. No, no, no, no, no. Silver. Me and my friend are robot. We're going to solve crime murders. Oh, my God. Oh, Rube. Oh, Rube. Oh, sweet, sweet little Rube. Jesus. Oh, fire engine. Oh, he was buried in an unmarked grave in a San Antonio potter's field. What? How fucked up is that? That's so fucked up. A few months later, his baseball playing friends passed a hat and provided him with a gravestone. Former teammate. Oh, God. The Shrek. Yeah. Yeah, the guy. Yeah. The cracker. The cracker. Yeah, the cracker guy provided the insightful epitaph for the headstone. Rube Waddell had only one priority to have a good time. Right. Seems pretty fitting. Yeah. They almost went with party machine. Fuck machine. When he died, he had no idea how many women he had married in his life. Wow. I mean, yeah. Slept with. Sure. Yeah, right. Married. That's crazy. So more than 10. Yeah. Yeah. 15 to 50. I don't know. Imagine he would probably just meet women. Oh, yeah. Drunken stupor and then marry them. And well, if you don't learn any facts. Yeah. When you're being brought up. Yeah. You could very easily think that you could marry anyone. Right. It was just like a sweet thing you did. No, this is like if Tarzan played baseball. That's totally right down to the shout that probably he did behind the fire trucks. He did live at the right time, though, because if I mean, if he was alive, if this guy was alive today, today, get out of here. I mean, he wouldn't get anywhere near anything. Even being the greatest one of the greatest pitchers of all time. He wouldn't get near any. No one would let him play. No, he would be like one of those guys who had like a show on Spike. Yeah. He'd have like a reality show. Totally. And he'd be he just like have his own league in a cornfield. Yeah. People try to come and hit him. He'd be like Kevin Costner in Field of Dreams, but the voice was fake. Wait, are you saying that voice wasn't fake in Field of Dreams? Well, no, that it is real in the movie. OK. Right. You believe it's real in real life. No, no, but in no. Don't rub me. Don't make me rub. Bastard. So they would have nothing to do with him today, no matter how talented he was. But it's crazy that even with all that shit, don't you think that he still should be known as I mean, like, babe, Babe Ruth, for instance, the greatest baseball player of all time was a fucking alcoholic womanizer. Just a glutton. Yeah. And we know him. But this guy is known if you bring up his name, he's known as the guy who chased the firetrucks. He's not known as 13 major league seasons. He led the league and strikeout seven times. He won the pennant in 1905 at a record of twenty seven and ten. Seven shout outs an era of one point for a year of one point for a is fucking insane. And it's just it is just that he chased too many firetrucks and that he was a crazy booze how to get bit by lions. Yes. But even with that, I think you get that on its own that you can maybe play with that. It's the fire station trucks firemen. Well, what about the going through the crowd and grabbing hot dogs and fighting people? Crazy, crazy for sure. But in that story, that was brought up one time. Yeah. The amount of times that he chased firetrucks or slept at a fire department or firemen outfits was 10 to 15. No. Yeah. So I get why that plagued him. Why wasn't he just a fireman? Why just I don't understand how you couldn't possibly nobody could talk him down from this. No. Nobody could say, Rube, listen, how much during the games don't please during the games don't. Do you know how many times he had that conversation? Oh, a thousand. Oh, my God. Endless. Endless. Today. And still. Please don't chase the firetrucks. No, Rube. Just today of all days. Rube, when we hear a firetruck today, we're not chasing it, right? Don't chase it. That feels very noncommittal. I'm not going to put you out on the mound if you're going to chase it like I told you, Rube. So I'm serious. You better not. My God, is that a fireman's uniform underneath that? Just red. God damn it. I like red. No, Rube. Do you hear that? I want to know how he got bit by the lion. He was petting it, right? He was probably trying to do something that you just shouldn't do with a lion. I mean, whatever it is, he probably looked at it like a big dumb cat. You know, he's probably like, pretty kitty, make it purr. And then the lion was like, sir. Excuse me, sir. A glorious animal. Glorious. Wrestling alligators. There you go. Wow. I think better than the story of Doc Ellis who pitched a no hitter on Ashley. I agree, even though that is its own amazing story. That is a day. That is one day where a guy took acid and didn't know he was pitching. Yes. I think you show me a highlight reel of both these guys. One of them is going to be two hours. How do you feel? I feel like more people should know about it should be a movie, right? That should absolutely be. How is it not a fucking movie? It's just dark comedy. Well, you would need to be like scaling it back. You'd be like, what are we going to lose? There's too much shit to cover. You would have to scale it back something because it's insane. It doesn't stop. I mean, we got to put the fire trucks in there. That's a. Trucks. It is a lot of the budget there. That's most of the budget there. Yeah. I don't know where you're going to find all those fire trucks. All right. I have gigs coming up. You got gigs coming up. I have one tonight. And then I don't know specifically what I'm not going to help us. No, I know. That's why I'm not even going to plug it. There you go. I don't even want to do it. OK. But it's a five hours in Claremont. So that happened three days ago, for those of you guys listening. Yep. And it went really good. I'm going camping next weekend. And you have invited the fans to come see that, right? Right. And I have soccer coach training. I'm going to be a soccer coach. OK. For my kids team. I've done that. On the 23rd, I'm going to see Manchester United at the Rose Bowl. OK. And then OK, on the 28th, I'll be at Hot Tub at the Virgil here in Los Angeles. On the 29th, I will be at Clap Your Hands, which I think is at UCB still. And that's it. I think that's all I got. And then on the 5th of August, I'll be at Wooden Vine, which is actually at Hollywood and Vine. So they need to do a little bit of thinking about that. Sure. That's it. That's pretty good. If you have any topics you think. I'm mostly just doing American stuff right now. I might branch out. I'm trying to avoid politics. Yeah. Unless the story is really crazy, but I just don't want to get into all that shit. You know, I don't I don't want to be. Well, that's just just just what mostly people do is rip on each other about politics. I hate all. Yeah. Parts of it. There's a really crazy story that's happening in Mississippi right now that I might cover. It's fucking insane. But for the most part, I just think it's fun. Well, I also think it's just you when you get involved in that, like to me, I'm always like, if you step back from the world of politics, it's just all so fake and fabricated. It's kind of arguing like this. Yeah. It's like us arguing about like Disney characters. Yeah. But I mean, there's a lot of fucking idiots. But I mean, someday I might do one about stuff, just stuff for all Reagan has said. Because it's fucking W. I mean, yeah, you could you could do you could do Reagan. George, we could do Reagan W. And you could put Tony Abbott in there is the prime minister of Australia right now. Oh, yeah. And you would not be able to tell who's saying the dumber thing. I my guess is you'd be get confused between Abbott and Reagan a good amount. I want trees cause pollution. Who said that? Well, see, that's not Bush. I know that's not Bush because that is misleading. Not really just crazy and stupid. That's like an attempt to get. So I'll say Tony Abbott. Reagan. Wow. What a fucker who said Alzheimer who called the Greeks Grecians. Um, I'll go with Abbott. Now, there's George W. Bush. Ah, I have. OK, who said that missiles after fire can be put put back in the submarines? Can be can be recalled. Reagan. Yeah. We will be able to retract the missiles back out of the submarines. All right. That's the dollop. I hope you enjoyed your baseball lesson. Yep, I did. He's one of my favorites. He's the best ever. That's why I know why. All right.