 I'll do one bump. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not gonna become the Tickling Plot, guys. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. I'm just gonna do a little bit of a little bit of a mingle thing. Boing. You wanted some sort of better signal that the podcast has started. I said that months ago. Right. And it took some time to develop. It took some time to develop an appropriate opening. How long did it take to come up with Boing? Four weeks. Wow. It's really good. Shit doesn't happen fast in the... You're not part of the... What you are is just like... I hate this already. I hate your tone. There's a whole brain center, a nerve center, a brain center where all of the knowledge and the dollop is constructed. And then it's put into a large truck and it's driven over to you who... So you're basically... It's like taking art to a clown. I mean, you know what it actually is. I think you just phrased that so well that I can't argue that. It's taking art to a clown. If you do enjoy the dollop, please leave a review on iTunes. We have a Facebook page. We have a Twitter thingamajig. We got new art. And thank the gentleman who made the art. That was very cool. So it's all good. It's all happening. We're doing well in Australia. Yes. America, less so. Well, listen, I've always said we're Australian. I've said that from the beginning. Fuck, it just went away as soon as I pick it up. So this is an uncomfortable one. Well that's not new. Because it's entitled Teeth. Or maybe I shouldn't title it Colonial Dentistry. Oh boy. Well, now the two facts I have are terrifying. Colonial Dentistry. Yeah, because I ran across a picture of George Washington's dentures. And then I was like, what in the fuck is happening? And then I just tracked all this down. Did dentists freak you out? Are you a dentist? No, I don't think they freaked me out. I mean, no. No. I've had a dentist break a drill in my mouth once. Oh, fuck. What? Yeah. I was just above a liquor store when I was pretty broke. Was it called Colonial Dentistry? Yeah. Great place. I can't believe we're doing a whole dollop on one place. Yeah, but I'm still not terrified. I'm scared of the drilling because I was once drilled on without Novocaine. They gave me a shot. It didn't work because I was such a pot smoker. Really? Yeah, apparently pot smoke can affect Novocaine. That's what I was told then. So anyway, they drilled on me. And then they have the drill in your mouth and they're drilling and there's the smell and all of a sudden you feel horrible pain. You don't want to jump up and go, ah, because there's a drill in your mouth. You're just like, ah, can we not? Yeah, basically. So I'm a little bit. And I think that's what it was like back then. It sounds like it was probably far worse. Oh, yeah. We're going to. Yeah. It's basically a shocking nightmare. That's how I would describe it. But this is this is a time when people people didn't take baths like back then until the 19th century, people thought that a bath is what would give you disease and particularly a naked bath. So if people did take a bath, they would do it with their clothes on. They would because they thought that hot water against their skin. I can't believe there was a time when logic just. It was a time when everything that was right, you didn't do right. Yeah. But don't you think there would be like a I mean, I mean, I guess if you're just told don't take baths because you get sick, you're like, well, I can't take a bath. But you think somebody would stumble upon baths. I'm sure somebody did. And then somebody tried to convince people for 100 years. Yeah. Come on. Seriously, guys. I mean, right now it's fine. I'm OK. Shoot him. That's why whenever you see the I don't know exactly when the Wild West was like 1740 or something. Sure. Or maybe it was later than that. But whenever you see those guys, so it must have been like late 70s. But when you see those guys, they always want a hot bath. That wasn't what was happening. No. Yeah. You mean like movies now? Yeah. It's always like, oh yeah. And a hot bath. Yeah, no. No whiskey. Whiskey and a wet rag. A soapy rag. I'm not going to be eaten by demons tonight. So people were fucking gross. Yeah. It was a imagine how much everybody smelled and just picked not just picture two 50 year olds who have never taken a bath just humping away. Oh, that was wow. That's life. Wow. That's colonial life. I hate it if they even live that long. So when people just full of positivity. Well, I wait till we get to the end of this and when people from Europe first came in the 1600s, their medical practices were crude, to say the least. They had a lot of theories about medicine and dentistry, but mostly they were just like trial and error. Hey, did that work? Nope. Nope. Well, it sort of did. Maybe I should do it again. Warmer. Getting warmer. So it was mostly based on myths and superstition and theories. One that held on that's my favorite that came from like, I want to say like the ancient Egyptians was that worms got into your mouth through food and went into your teeth. And that's what was causing. Oh, wow. And that that lasted until the mid 1700s. Oh, fucking worms. Oh, it hurts. What do you got? You got worms? You got mouth worms? Boy, those are the worst. What did you eat? What did you eat that gave you mouth worms? I had figs. Oh, man. Can't even be eating figs. Worms in your mouth. Oh, boy, man. You sure it's worms? Yeah. Have a handful of this gravel. Worms. Worms aren't in gravel, man. They'll get you if you eat food, man. Yeah. But what about the worms? Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, yeah. But what about the dying thing? Yeah. What about it? No, don't you'll be listen, just don't take a bath and you're going to live forever. OK. All right. My man. You're a smart man. I'm a genius. It was quite common for early settlers to lose their teeth in their 20s and 30s. So by the time they got to like mid 30 they were toothless. Cool. Just gum in it. That's cool. Just gum on the shit out of it. Yeah, that turned dirty. It turned dirty. You don't. So when people began to colonize America, the country was not exactly built up. When the first people got here, it wasn't like when they left London where they were like shops and you can get the food you wanted and get everything you... You can go down to the butcher and whatever, like they had back then. Instead it was just like, oh, forest. And it's not a plane ride away anymore, so you're like, well, fuck it, I'm not going back. No, you're steered from... I can't believe we survived that, but what a bad move we've made. Holy shit. So it would be like me or you going to live in the Amazon, right? Like right now, just like, hey, let's go see how this goes. All right. That bit me. Bye guys. That bit me. So now they basically ate corn. Like the first people that got here for years just ate corn. Oh, well, that's cool. That's so fun. Yeah. I mean, maybe you got a hankering for something else over the years. Maybe. I don't know. Well, no, but it's not even that they're hanging for it. They were so just trying to stay alive with like... Because they had to build a house when they got here. It's not like they rolled up. You remember the butcher shop? Just shut up and eat your corn. Where's the cobbler? Shut up. Just eat your bloody corn. You know, they would do... Because everything they were doing was like, first of all, a lot of them came here, like the Jamestown people came here and they were supposed to find gold. So they just all went out looking for gold and the company that sent them here was like, you better get fucking gold. And they weren't finding any gold and they just kept looking harder. And in the meantime, they just using up all their supplies and all of a sudden they're like, oh, we're out of food. Oh, fuck me. That's a shame. Oh, we kind of blew that. Well... So, yeah, so it was just corn, corn, corn. So they were shitty nutrition. Yeah. Which needs the shitty teeth. Right. Because you're just not getting... What do you need for teeth? What's a good tooth food? Worms. Worms are great, turns out. They were wrong. So then when English people... This is the... Here's the hugest switcheroo of all time. So when people have been here for like 50 years or whatever, when English people would come over, the first thing they'd be horrified by were the American's teeth. Oh, wow. What a goddamn role reversal we have, huh? Like they're like penning letters back. Say what you will. America won that race. The tooth race America won. Ah, victory, sweet victory. Did they send their teeth home? Is that what happened? Their good teeth or their bad teeth? Their shitty American teeth. I don't know if they sent them home. Where's home? England. Are you saying that as like a scare, like this is what it's like here? You send a tooth? Maybe, no. Well, the teeth were coming out. I bet they fucking were. So they didn't have like luxuries, like toothbrushes? That's like a luxury. So people literally weren't doing anything on their teeth? Yeah. No, well, a teeny tiny bit. What? Like just some like? Some of them will put a tooth powder on a rag and rub it on their teeth. Oh, cool. So tooth rag powder. Gets the worms out. I mean, you're just trying to stay alive. Yes, true. So in regular dudes who brush their teeth, apparently were called like, you're a queer, like you know what I mean? Like you're tooth brushing. Look at him with all of his teeth, that queer. Hey, pretty teeth. Hey, pretty teeth. Where's your boyfriend, toothy? I'll spit the shit out of him. Beautiful, beautiful gay teeth. So that's like regular folk. But then there were the Richie Riches who did, who indulged and did have what they needed, you know, but they didn't have like, none of, there was no dentists. Dentists didn't exist yet. Okay. So it was like you would go, mostly they would go to the barber. I'm sorry. Just a little off the tooth. What the fuck is he doing there? The barber would cut your hair and then polish your teeth. I wish they still did that. But he would use like horrible substances. Oh, cool. Like, what about some gravel? Like they would literally use like really harsh stuff that would take your enamel off. No water, I bet. Yeah. Yeah. So it was terrible. That's cool. Poor people would just wipe their teeth with tooth powder with a sprinkled on some cloth. Oh, Christ. So next to your, there's your bucket of water. Yep. And then right next to that is a rag. That's your tooth rag. You pick that up. Hold on, honey. I'm going to do, and then you go back to, you go back to making love to your wife. Ah, Jesus. It doesn't sound like a good time. No, there was no. I mean, the odors that were coming from these people's mouths and it would probably cut through the odor that was coming off their body. Oh, gosh. Just a stink tornado coming out of them. We would not. If we were transported in time, we would not last three minutes because of the odors coming off of people. Oh, God. That, I mean, somebody should really take advantage of that. And like a time travel movie, really just no one ever, no one ever acts like anybody who's really. What does that smell? Get back at the goddamn time machine. I mean, you know, when you walk back, like you walk past a homeless dude who hasn't bathed and sometimes you get hit with a smell that you almost vomit. Sometimes you'll be on a train in New York and there'll be a homeless guy on the train and you'll be like in, you'll be indoors. Yeah. Having to smell and not a shit man. Yeah. And just try to be like, it's unbelievable. It's crazy what the body can do. Okay. And all of Boston. So then, so these people would obviously get toothaches. I'm willing to bet that would happen. Which were unbearable. Oh, the worms. Oh, the worms. And there were home remedies, which were all bullshit, you know, rub some mint on it and stuff like that. What's your friend? Have you seen this tree? Go ahead and rub your teeth against it. Run around your home. There were guys selling fake potions, which, you know, were total horse shit. I think I might have been one of those guys in that time. You were an elixir guy? Well, I think I might have been a fake potion guy. Well, why wouldn't you? Because you could just throw a bunch of shit in a bottle that you had around. Yeah, yeah, that's the thing. Today it's called an evangelist, cool preacher. Yes. But then you'd have to get out of town. True. You couldn't sell the elixir and kick it. Yeah, no, no, no. No, you move. Yeah. It's a grifter's life. You keep going. So, and then they're also using acids. Oh, wow. Which actually causes dental decay. What I was going to say? What acids are? I don't know what kind of acids they're using, but in America, but in Europe, they were much more advanced with dental practices. So there was actually a French guy who was like considered the father of modern dentistry. Mr. Tooth. Ah, it's C-O-WEE, sorry. C-WEE, yeah, yeah, yeah. And he was like, what, you're pouring what on what? Acid. No. Burns the worms out. They had herbal remedies for the pain, but you know, nothing worked. And as we established in our vampire episode, common American people in this time were superstitious about doctors and dentists. So they preferred to deal with their teeth the old fashioned way and just have them removed. So for two started to hurt, you took her out. Jesus Christ. Okay, now they didn't have anything. I already I see the crest. I see what we're and I don't like it. I mean, basically, because like if you never brushed all of your teeth with hurt, right? Like every tooth and every tooth, so everybody's everyone had painful teeth. Like that was just how you existed. You're just walking on going, oh, fuck me. How are you? Mouth's killing me. You mouth is just fucking on fire right now. Anyway, see you later. Good to see you, Joe. Good to see you, man. God, I fucking hate my teeth. And then one would get so bad, you'd be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And then you'd have that one yanked out. But there were no dentists. Remember? Okay, so let me ask you a question. I don't want you to ask it. Let me ask you a question. Okay. Now you have a tooth that has to come out. Yep. No, there's no dentists. Where do you go? Probably the barber. Sometimes. No. All right. Most commonly, the blacksmith. Oh, Jesus Christ. Wrong. Because he had metal tools. But he's a blacksmith. He's a pounding iron. Not the gentle procedure for a mouth. Yeah, but he understands metal and the hard things. Yeah, okay. Yeah. He's the guy to go to. Let me just put this sword in your mouth. Other metal workers were good. Silver workers. They did use the barber. The barber was a frequent tooth puller. Because, you know, he had no way to give a shave. And yeah, so he has two skills. Take out a tooth. And then then apothecaries, which is basically a pharmacist, right? Yeah. I mean, yeah. Not one that knew what it was doing. They were doing it. Oh, no. No, not at all. Sure. Yeah, I could do that for like 10 bucks, I guess. Like shove this up your ass and run. There you go. Feel better? No. Oh, well. Here, take two of these. Priest and teachers also. So can I just say everybody? Everybody would pull your teeth? Anybody that you were like, you know some stuff, right, about some things? Yeah. Hey bartender, a shot of whiskey will you yank this one out? In 1735, James Mills ran an ad in the New York Weekly Journal, quote, teeth drawn and old stumps taken out safely. Instructed in the art by the late James Reading deceased stumps Mills is to be spoke with at his shop in the house of the deceased near old slip market. Wait, so he was taught how to pull teeth by James Reading and stumps. And well, I get we'll get to why there's stumps. And then but he took over. He took over James's old spot. So he's like, come to the dead man's house and I shall speak to you. Oh, God, what a great I mean that ad. We should run that now. It's the worst. It's really not. We should put that on Craigslist. Oh, my God. So I'm going to be like, where are you located? Ready to meet up. You're like, you dumbass. That's really weird, though. Yeah, it's super weird. Common practice of the day included sitting the patient on the ground, the floor or holding him between the operators knees. Oh my God. So they would just like crotch your face. Yeah, because they if you move around too much. Yeah. So they'd have to. Well, I don't know if it was technically called crotching your face. No, no, no. That's what I'm bringing to the table. It was called that. OK, so yeah, they would crotch your face. Thank you for respecting my knowledge. You got it. Remember, art to a clown. There was a method that people use to extract teeth themselves. Oh, fuck. It better be cute with the door handle and some string. It involved a tool called a dental key, also called the English key. It actually looked similar to a large metal key with a type of claw at the end. The cloud would be placed over the tooth and tightened. Then the person would turn the key to remove the tooth. This is a very rough method. It's usually involved inexperienced people. Like your dad would help you out or whatever. Often, the usually the teeth would break or the jaws would be broken. Oh my God. Why is that even around that? So why is that an option? Why the fuck are they? Because you're desperate. But desperate enough to ruin your jaw? Yeah, but what's the no? Yeah, you're in so much pain. You couldn't go. OK, so so we know that there's an item out there that's breaking jaws. Yeah, but you you also know that for some people it's worked. Yes, but you also know that literally everybody has a side job pulls teeth. But everybody has that hobby. Yeah, but in your family, there's this key that breaks your jaw. Your aunt used it. It worked really great on her now dead. Yeah, yeah. Her vampire kid that you guys dug up that we ate his heart set on fire. We're going to eat a grace his heart and then we can yank that teeth out. Huh? What do you think? And there's no anesthetic, obviously. So you're just doing this. No, you're just turning a key. Yeah, you turn the key and then the tooth cracks and you're like, better. Well, no. It's in half now. It's in half and harder to get at. It's only that's what a stump is, obviously, is the I would think so. Yeah, that's what I think was something else. The cracked tooth, one of a keyed tooth, half tooth. What we would put on, we would put on something known as a crown. Yes. Back then, they would just try to keep worms out of that. So. Tale of two times. Oh, God, you ain't fixed. Yeah. No, not with a stump. Oh, Lord. Oh, man. Oh, Jimmy. Jimmy's going to die. Poor Jimmy's dead. He's got to wear mouth. Oh, boy. It was only about the end of the eighth century that dental practitioners joined the settlers from Europe. So. Eighteenth century. Yeah. At the end of the 18th century is finally when people who were like what you would call dentists came, but still not not ideal. Well, there just weren't a lot of dentists. If you're a dentist and you're living in Paris, why the fuck would you go to crazy America? I mean, this is why I would go, because there's not a dentist here. But you got to understand that most of the people coming here were fucking nuts. Yes. Well, you've proven that. Like not. Yeah. Nuts. Yeah. And they were all prisoners who were sent there. So they weren't they weren't nuts in America. They were just the fucking lunatics bailing. Yeah. No, they. Yeah. Freedom isn't free. That's what we've always said. Right, Dave? I mean, I guess there's a cost. But the dentist at that point. So they got here. They wouldn't set up shop. They would just be traveling around pulling teeth. They were like on the move. Well, they were like the Beatles. But they weren't just dentists. They were they were like practitioners. So they were they knew about dentistry, but they also blacksmith. They also extracted teeth and performed minor surgery. They would cut hair and they'd apply leeches and perform embalming. So they were like so you like pull up in your van. What do you need? You got a body around? What are you after? Leeches? Teeth? What are we doing today? How are we feeling? What are we going to do? We juicing the dead guy. We saving the guy. What are we doing? Dentistry? Got it all. Maybe I could give you some bangs. I don't know. I'm just thinking I'm just spitballing here. I don't know. Have you heard of the Rachel? Have you heard of the Rachel? You're going to love it. So James Daniel was a Boston hairdresser by trade. Well, we all know in those times there was a huge crossover. But I think was the gateway to dentistry. But he placed an ad in 1766 offering to operate on teeth. It was not uncommon for early dentists to have one trade and to do dentistry on the side because of the advances in Europe who were way ahead. So they're way ahead of dentistry. And we're way behind. So we were just like, fuck it. We just won't even try. But people started to know that you shouldn't eat sugary foods. And tobacco would stain your teeth. So those are two things at this point in 1700s that we slowly caught on. That's good. Those are good. Uh oh. You've got something. No, actually, so advances started to be made in Europe. John Hunter of England in the 1700s came up with the idea of transplanting human teeth. Transplanting teeth? So he would pay people to come in and donate their teeth. Okay. All right. So walk me through why this is a good plan. Because people need teeth. So people have teeth. It's like a kidney donation. So he'll take their teeth. Yeah. And give them to other people, but then those people that he took the teeth from, they don't have the teeth anymore. Do you know what Republicans are? I feel like this was an early Republican. So he would take stuff out of poor people and put it in rich people. I mean, the difference there is really only wealth. I would say, yeah. Because there's nobody who's just like, oh yeah. Oh, I need teeth now. Take them from that guy. That guy's like, here's your teeth. Take them from that guy. That guy's like, here, take them. Ow, I need teeth. Just plugging a damn. Yeah, basically. Fucked up is our world. That's just not. I mean, how the fuck are you not? Why are people avoiding baths? I'd be like, I want to die. I'm going in the fucking tub. That's how somebody finally discovered that bathing was okay. They're like, fuck this world. Hey guys, I don't stink and I'm fine. So if you went in to get a tooth that had been recently donated. Donated is a cute term. They would tie it to the other teeth. Tie it? Well, yeah, they used metal to tie teeth together. Okay. So they would kind of band the donated tooth to your other teeth. Okay. He would jam the new tooth in your old tooth hole. Oh, that's a shame. Sometimes called a socket. Yeah. Well, we all know how teeth. But I say tooth hole because there's no way they were saying socket. Well, teeth are like Legos. You just got to hear the click. Yeah, I got that one. All right, that one's in. Feels good. There you go. Oddly, they didn't last that long. What? Wait, wait, wait. You'd have to go back and get new teeth in like three or four months. I know, I can't understand it. I just put one in. You put it in the flesh. Heard it go click. It clicked like a Lego. We're good to go. So then this caught on in America. Okay, naturally. Children were lured to have their teeth extracted for the benefit of the wealthy in exchange for a few shillings. So they're having kids come in and yanking kids teeth and giving them to and putting it in rich people's mouths. You okay? Yeah, there is an ad in New York City's. By the way, I mean, no. There is an ad in New York City's River Tins Royal Gazette that offered four guineas for each sound front tooth. Another ad stated most money given for teeth. You front fucking teeth. Yeah. Well, you still got the back one. So you can still chew and stuff. You can still eat. You just will look crazy. But I guess if nobody had teeth, then... So the only people who actually have teeth that look good are rich people. And so if you're poor, you're like, yeah, I don't need teeth. I mean, I know you're explaining. It doesn't look better? Well, I can't fathom saying, I don't need teeth. If no one else you know has teeth, you go in to do the naughty show on a Tuesday night, Vicky doesn't have teeth and Sam doesn't have teeth. Nobody has teeth. I mean, we're pretty close to that, but nobody has teeth. Then you're like, why do I need teeth? Okay. During the American Revolution, you ready? Gavengers would rob graves for teeth to be used as dentures. Okay, now, but this is what I'll say. That makes more sense to me. That does make more sense to me. I know. No, it doesn't because... You can't argue that it doesn't make sense to me. Because you're taking a tooth from a guy that's been on the ground for like a year or something? Well, not a year, but this is... Well, you say that like you know, but you know that... This is why I'm running for Congress in 1760. But what you could... Somebody dies... I mean, look, they're eating their fucking hearts. Just take some fucking teeth out of the dead guy and start attaching them to people. That way everybody has teeth. Fair argument. Fuck. I mean, I just can't imagine taking it out and going, want to pop this in your head? Yeah. Hey, put this in your head. Here you go. So, after a while, they realized that the socket thing wasn't working, just cram it into a socket. Oh. And they started using different materials. Different to... Well, so they started using ivory or bone as a denture. Okay. So you'd pop it in the denture instead of in the socket. Okay. So that's not bad, right? We're getting warmer. It doesn't end horrible. Okay. About using teeth which were donated, went on for a long time, or not donated. After the Battle of Waterloo, dudes swarmed over the dead and yanked out all their teeth. That's what I'm talking about. Which were then brought to Dennis and turned into dentures. And for decades after Waterloo, Dennis advertised dentures made of Waterloo teeth. Oh, god. I mean... See, they've taken my idea and they've just ruined it. Just take the teeth, let's just be coy about it. They're like, Waterloo teeth are in! They're better than other dead guys' teeth. Come get a Waterloo tooth. He may have lost the battle, but he won the teeth war. You know, your great grandfather left with 95 teeth. So in the mid 1700s, in the American colonies, Dennis began implanting dentures and bridges. So we're moving up. Yes. We're moving up. I mean, we still have a long way to go. Paul Revere. Everyone knows Paul Revere. For those who don't know, someone held up some lights and said if there's two lights... The British are coming! The British are coming if there's one light, it's safe. So Paul Revere was supposed to have been on a horse and rode through all the towns and screamed the British are coming. And then all the men came out and fought them. In reality, he was stopped and told to go home. But that's our little... He was a dentist. Really? Or he was... I should say he was a silversmith. Well, that's the same thing, it turns out. A silversmith. So he's a hoity toity blacksmith. So he did a little... Yeah, he's a hoity toity blacksmith who did dentistry on the side because he worked with metals. Anybody who worked with metals... Well, and because everybody did dentistry on the side. Yeah. Yes. Yeah, really, seriously. Everybody. Everybody. Everybody did dentistry on the side. Yeah, but if you could make a little bucks by yanking someone's tooth, wouldn't you do it? I would do it. I just think we're heading towards needing an occupation. Yes. For the first time in the 18th century began the proper extraction of teeth. Letting a ghost do it. Of course. Modern medicine. False teeth did not just come from humans. Okay. They're also made from bone. All right. Various animals, especially sheep. Okay. This is definitely weird. Ivory from walrus. Elephants are hippopotamus. Okay. Yeah, so they use cow teeth and sheep teeth. You'd have like a... I'm sorry. Wait. I thought you meant they were using bone. Their bone. They were using their teeth. No, they use their teeth also. Cow teeth. Yeah, get on board. You would maybe have cow teeth. You would have cow teeth. You could have a couple of little goat teeth in there. And... Well, if you can't afford the Waterloo teeth, they'd be like, well, on the second shelf we have goat teeth. We actually have a plan that I think would maybe be a little better for you guys. Here you go. How about one huge hippo tooth? Huh? Take up your whole mouth. Just be like a big marshmallow tooth right in the middle of your fucking face. Like I said, these Waterloo teeth are great. I'd love to see those in you. But if we can't do that, I think maybe you go with hippo. Yeah, go hippo or a horse. Horse might be good on you. Horse tooth. Horse tooth. I mean, that's like a derogatory thing. If you say someone has like a horse... If you say, yeah, like Nancy Kerrigan had a horse face or whatever because of her teeth. Yeah. So it turns out that might be the history of the Kerrigans. It could be. It probably is. It's all horrible. Thank you. John Flagg was a Bostonian and the first native born American dentist who exclusively prepared for the profession. So this is in the late 1700s. America has its first American born actual dentist. Yes, it's time. In 1790, he constructed the first chair made for dental patients. Oh, okay. So up until 1790, it was like, go ahead and lay down. Crotch in the face. Oh, there's a big crotch. It's in this chair. It was adjustable and it had an arm to hold instruments. But don't you think you would miss having a non-bathe dentist crotch in your face? I mean... You can't. I miss it now. Takes me back to home. Oh, the double smell. My mouth and your groin. You'd pass out. That's how it would work. You'd fucking knock yourself out. I imagine most of these people passed out when the other tooth yanked, right? The pain has to be extraordinary. Yeah. But at that point, people were just probably like, yeah, you feel a little bit of a sting, but you'll be okay. You feel a little bit of a sting, then you put a little whiskey in and you'll be okay. Then you put a horse tooth in your mouth. George Washington's dentist, John Greenwood, invented the first known dental foot engine. Dental foot engine? In 1790. Choo-choo? And Greenwood adopted his mother's foot treadle spinning wheel to rotate a drill. Greenwood's dentist son continued to use the drill, but no one else did. So he was using the little foot... The little foot tapper. It took hours. Oh my... It must have been really slow and painful. Must have been like, my calf's burning. It'd be like, my fucking mouth. It's going to take a breather. All right. So he was a famous dentist and he was George Washington's dentist. So let's talk about George Washington. Well, yeah, okay. Because that's what got us here in the first place. Yeah. Well, at some point... Oh man. At some point, they used wood. So what's your image of George Washington? Well, you know, I mean... We're grown up to act like he's almost this mythical... He's our first president. He's Santa. He doesn't lie. He's like this perfect guy who does everything right. Yes. And yeah, so to us, the way we're brought up, it's like... He's the... I mean, I would say when you think of the founding fathers, you really think of him. He's the first guy. Yeah, he's the guy. Okay. So he's America's first president. He's really, really, really rich. If you were live today, he'd be worth an estimated $525 million. Okay. So middle class. His Virginia plantation, Mount Vernon, consisted of five separate farms on 8,000 acres of prime farmland run by over 300 slaves. His wife, Martha, inherited significant property from her father. He made much more than other presidents. His salary was 2% of the total US budget. What the fuck? So he made an awesome contract. Yeah. And after that was like, we should just do that salary thing. You know, that was a bad... Who made that mistake? That was a... That's weird because he came up with it because he was the first one. Ta-da! Farewell, boys. I'm riding away on my gold pony. So he had the best dentists care there was. Yes, that makes sense. Now, remember, everyone growing up, the rumor was that he had wooden teeth. Yeah. He did not have wooden teeth. Okay. That's a total lie. Because I was going to say, it feels like at this point we've passed wooden teeth. No, wooden teeth would be horrible. Just not good. You would be replacing them every day. Like there'd be... Just this mouth splinters? No. At no point in any of my readings did I come across wooden teeth. Wooden teeth were not a thing. Unless someone did it at home. I would like to, for one day, have teeth. Well, give him wood teeth. He's dying. His wish. I don't know. Pretty weird. But we actually have a shitload of documentation about... He's the perfect tooth guy. He's the perfect guy to explain to us what was going on back then for rich people. Because he is the president, so everything he did was documented. Okay. All right. So Washington had a long history of illness. This is insane. In 1751, he wrote of having smallpox. The following year, he complained that he had a bout of violent pleuris. As a young lieutenant colonel in 1755, serving with General Braddock in the French and Indian War, he suffered pain in the head and dysentery. In 1761, when he was 29, and back at Mount Vernon, he got breakbone fever, now known as dengue fever. Oh my God. Characterizes as a headache fever and severe muscles and joint pain. Over the ensuing years, there were attacks of malaria, flu, and rheumatic complications. Jesus. Rheumatic. What the fuck? So he was a fucking mess. He was a mess. How the fuck did he get dengue fever? I just think he got all kinds of shit back then. What do they call it? Busted bone? If he was in the French and Indian War, I assume he went somewhere. Ugh. Yeah, broken bone. I mean, I can't believe that- It feels like your bones are breaking when you have that. That's why it's called- Yeah, but that's still around. Yeah. Yeah. So what? So it's still fucked up. I mean, it must be those worms. So he was a mess. And he received the standard medical treatments of the day, which- I bet these are good. The prevailing one was a heavy dose of Colomel, which is a mercury chloride solution. Oh, sweet god. Oh my god. Mercury was the number one. When you got syphilis back then, you banged back the mercury. Ugh. Crazy. But apparently, it turns out, terrible for your teeth. It really- there must be also something with the time that they're just so fucking gross and their immune systems must have just been pretty strong, honestly. I would imagine. So they must have been able to drink a little mercury here and there. Have a little nip of merc. Give me a whiskey and a merc. Of American water. I just saw your lady upstairs. I'll take a jar of merc. Throw some merc at him. He'll feel better. Well, there's a story of Lewis and Clark near the end of their journey where they went to stay with some tribe and they paid to fuck the squaws and then they all got- Ugh. Horrible. They all got syphilis but then they just took mercury but then they'd fuck him again. They just kept taking mercury and- Really just hitting that mercury. Really? Using that mercury as a crutch. But not only going down would it be problematic but coming up because Calomel would make patients throw up in order to release their body from impurities, which is also really bad for your teeth. When you throw up, the acid comes out of your stomach. So it's making, not only is it bad just for the teeth in general, but then you're vomiting back up it. So you're just- It's just a good medicine. It's just good medicine. It's what the mouth calls a win-win. Back then Calomel was given to patients in such great quantities that their hair and teeth fell out. Jesus Christ. Wait. You feel better now, Bobby? No. I feel less. Can I get a walrus tooth? Oh, my teeth fell out. So the Calomel led to dental problems beginning when Washington was 22. Over the next 35 years he would lose all of his teeth despite daily brushing, using a dentrifice and mouthwash. Washington's toilet set contained a silver toothbrush and a tongue scraper with a silver tooth powder case, and it can still be seen at Mount Vernon. A little fancy boy, huh? Oh, yeah. A tongue scraper. One of the richest guys in the country. If I see someone with a tongue scraper now, I'm like, ooh la la. It's fucking 1700s. He's fucking scraping his tongue. Okay, this is where it's at. So tooth powders- Were cocaine. Were made from roots and herbs, burnt bread, tobacco, and pumice. Hummus's brother? Pumice. And borax. Oh, my. Wait, what's pumice? Pumice is a rock that floats. It's a volcanic rock that if it's light enough that it floats so you can break it down. So rich people while getting dentistry were being given shit that took all the enamel off their teeth. So he was scrubbing his teeth with rocks. Oh, that feels good. I got that fresh from the blacksmith feeling. Oh, man. No, I just scrubbed my teeth. I feel like I went down to the quarry. It's nice. I lost my toothbrush so I had to go eat a rock. So I feel good. It's just- he probably used solutions with herbs and resins and balsam as mouthwash. Nobody else had mouthwash. Yummy. Salt, wine, and vinegar could also be used to add it to water for the rinsing of the mouth. Makes a little more sense. Yeah, wine. Vinegar. I know wine used to be used to purify water in Roman times. At this point, we're not thinking of like how is- are you going to smell like vinegar? It's like can we kill that fucking horse shit coming out of your face? God damn it. Salt's really good though. I've never had anything done to my mouth, salt is great. Toothaches followed by extraction was a yearly occurrence for Washington. There were frequent episodes of infected and abscessed teeth and flame gums and finally ill-fitting dentures. Did I mention that he was known for a hair trigger temper? Did I mention? He was always just screaming at people. I mean, I get it. Every year you got to lose a tooth. And leaning up to it for a year, you're just like, oh, just hang in there. Yeah, hang in there. A little mercury will put that fire out. Here I go. He was always writing to dentists of the day asking for a file to repair a denture or a scraper to clean his teeth or pincers to fasten wires on his teeth. He inquired about a dentist of whose skill much has been said. He requested material to make a model of his teeth so a dentist could make new dentures. We basically have boxes and boxes of letters of him writing dentures. Please stop this. I'm the president. You make it stop. So wait, so now let me ask. So his dentures, they're still fastening teeth to teeth, right? So he's losing all of his teeth. Okay. So at some point, okay, well, when he was, when he was, okay, not when he was president, okay. By the time he was president, when he was inaugurated for his first time in 1789, he only had one tooth left. Oh my God. And was marrying. He was wearing a full set of dentures made by John Greenwood. So the first time he's president, he's already got a full set of dentures and then one tooth one, one probably he probably named. Oh my God. Are you feeling in there tonight? Bishop, my baby, you know, daddy loves you. Who's number one. Daddy loves his dude. No, daddy can't lose this tooth. Otherwise daddy loses all his teeth. You're not going anywhere. You're not going anywhere. Sweet fish. Previously, he had partial dentures which were held in place by hooking them around the remaining teeth. Okay, right. The Greenwood dentures had a base of hippopotamus ivory carved to fit the gums. Okay. The upper denture denture had ivory teeth and the lower plate consisted of eight human teeth fastened by gold pivots that screwed into the base. The set was secured in his mouth by spiral springs. So he had a crazy robot mouth. Human teeth. Have you ever thrown a watch on the ground? That was Washington's mouth. He's like a bond villain. It's crazy. His teeth are spinning. Crank, crank, crank. Don't worry, his teeth are just spiraling in again. It gives the president crank, crank, crank. Okay, let's talk about, oh my God, my fucking mouth. George needs new teeth on the bottom. Human teeth. Bring me a boy. There's really no, like, there's no depiction of really what must have happened, which is there must have just been a lot of time where he'd just be like, it's just my fucking teeth. Like Mr. President, what do you want to do? He'd be like, we should. No, if there were photographs, if there was photographers back then, it would just been a lot of pictures of him hunched over. Yeah. With just the caption, the president is saying fuck again. Picking up teeth. The president mumbles, fuck me. Standing a bill holding his fucking mouth in. But wouldn't a slobber become like, if you have a contraption like that in your mouth, isn't it just fucking wet and slobbering? Well, that's why what you're saying is that when you picture George Washington, this is not part of what you, you don't picture a slobbering man. With a fucking, with a robot in his mouth. Yeah, with a robotic face. Like, blah, blah, blah. No, because when we're going to get to the photos. What? Not the photos, we're going to get to the portraits. Oh God. Because in portraits, he often looked like he has puffy cheeks. Yeah. But that's probably because he had so much shit in his mouth. That's probably because he had a whale's skeletal system inside of his face. In Charles Wilson Peale's first portrait of Washington in 1757, the mouth is noted to be quite small. He was 25 at that time and certainly still had some of his natural teeth. He was rolling in it. He had like seven. He's like, this is great. Seventeen. Hello, who's a dog? Hashtag killing it. Winning. The painting done in 1776 by the same artist. So that's 20 years, no, 10 years later, 11. By the same artist shows a scar on the left cheek from a fistula caused by an abscess tooth. So then 10 years later, there's a scar on him because they had to go in through his face to get a tooth out. They had to go in through his face? They had to go in through his face because it got so fucked up. No, there's no excuse for the face. He was getting the top notch shit. You can see all of them when you open your mouth. Not if it's like, you know. Impacted or something? Impacted and gotten all fucked up and it's down in there. You can't get in there that way. Plus, the guy is also the guy who's just moving in the bed. So excuse me, Mr. Bed Mover, do you also do dentistry? Yeah, well, yeah. I've done that on the... I mean, I've got a knife. And a hammer. And a hammer. You're perfect. Remove the molar. The president needs you. Well, I've got a boot. Yes, kick the president in the mouth. Kick the toe out of the president's mouth. He just said toe. Tooth. But they basically have toes in their mouth at this point. I don't think it's far. Washington's next set of dentures were made in 1791 and the third in 1795 for which he paid $60. That's a shitload of money back then. Dental discomfort is said to have caused him to forgo giving his second inaugural address. He didn't give an inaugural speech. This makes sense to me. Because it hurts so much to talk. Jesus Christ. I mean, it makes me like him more. I know. Now he seems like a fucking real hero. This is the story you tell him, not the one that he didn't talk about the cherry tree. Yeah, he had wooden teeth and he cut a cherry tree down. You're like, little girl. Like, no, the president couldn't give an address because his mouth hurt. A lot. He was drinking mercury and had bones for teeth. That's president number one. And he took a tooth from every man he beat in battle. I'll be using that. He had over 57,000 teeth by the end. So, Pearl, Rembrandt Pearl's portrait in 1795 is thought to be a realistic one and here the mouth is seen as puffy and swollen. Later in life, he could only eat soft foods that did not require chewing. Oh, Jesus. So he was just gumming it. I don't even think he, I mean, it sounds like he was probably just drinking shit. If he couldn't even like, I mean, he must have just been. But he had to eat. Back to corn, I think. They just had to puree everything in the blender. Yeah, they'd throw in the old Vitamix, you know, little pumice. James Garnett made a large and very clumsy set for him in 1796. Apparently Washington was not pleased with these dentures and ordered another set from Greenwood in 1797. So for a year he had giant dentures. Gilbert Stuart reportedly packed cotton inside Washington's mouth to support his lips in his 1797 painting. Oh my God. Because they were like, you know, like the guy you see at the fair. Yeah, yeah. Just knows him. Hey, how you doing? You want to take a minute? You want to go on a ride? Oh my God. You want to go on this ride? It's $7. I'm the president of the United States. Washington often returned dentures for adjustments and repairs at one time complaining they were forcing his lips out. One time complaining my life is a prison. I am in mouth hell. Help me. I am in mouth hell. When does it end? Oh my God. When does it end? Any way to remove the mouth. Can I just have the lower part of my face taken off? Can I just be a brain in a jar? Please. His final set were made in 1798. The year before he died, this set has a swag gold plate with individual backing for each tooth, which was fastened by rivets. The lower denture on this set along with the others are on display at the National Museum of Dentistry in Baltimore. Oh, you can go see I know now. Don't you want to see? Yeah, there's pictures of his fucking mouth. There's pictures of him online. I'll attach it as the photo. Things got better for dentistry in the 1800s. Good for Washington. Yeah. Hey, good news, George. Around 1801, we righted the ship. With the drill and advances from Europe, people knew to drill out the cavity and put in a filling. The filling materials used were then tin, gold foil, lead, silver. Whatever. Mercury. Use whatever the fuck you want. So much better. People were made out of horrible things like cow and goat teeth, that sort of stuff and ivory. Mercury amalgam was first brought into the US from Europe by two brothers, French brothers, the Crocores. The Crocores? Yes, the Crocores. I'm sorry? We are the Crocores and we have the new teeth. When people say the name Crocores, they will think teeth. So they came in 1833. They had a very strong, effective advertising campaign that promised to save decaying teeth by filling them without pain in minutes. The Crocores were considered unethical charlatans by many medical dentists. They removed gold fillings and replaced them with mercury amalgams. But they also just put it in people who didn't need it and they put in too much amalgam. So it started the first amalgam war. In 1845, the American Association of Dental Surgeons, the ASDS, banned amalgam. So anybody who used amalgam who was in the ASDS was going to be kicked out. Good. But it remained popular. Of course it did. Because it was easy to use. Because it was stupid. And it was quick. So basically, dentists just started leaving the ASDS. And after about five years, they lost so many that they were like, no, you can use amalgam. But at that point, so many dentists have bailed and started their own group called the ADA. The ASDS perished. The AFL, really. In 1840, the first dental college was opened, the Baltimore College of Dental Surgery, which led to government oversight. So now we're getting some places. We're really in a better spot. And regulation through the ADA. Shh. No, no, no, no. During the Civil War, southern dentists seceded from the ADA. No, they didn't. No. Associations don't secede. I'll read that again then. During the Civil War, southern dentists seceded from the ADA. So the North versus the South, the ADA versus the ASDA. I want to use slaves. I want to use slaves for my dentistry. That would be amazing. That's what he's over. He's like, well, you think you should put slaves in people's mouths? Slaves should be dentists. Oh, and so they formed the SDA, the Southern Dental Association. Oh, God. And then they had that in 1869. South will rise again tooth wise. I mean, through the teeth. I'm talking tooth. I'm just talking about the mouth part. It is funny though, because obviously people in the southern states now don't have, if you were to compare teeth. Not as good. Not as good. Not as good. Pound for pound, not as good. Pound for pound. And here's where it all traces back to. They joined back up with the ADA to form the National Dental Association in 1897. And finally in 1922 when all was forgiven, the NDA became the ADA again. That's cannot imagine the 30 years of bullshit that went on to get it back there. Can we just really? You burned Atlanta down. We're still pissed at you. Right. We're talking about teeth. Yeah. Well, no, we're not. Really? Because I can't run my office in more of my mouth slaves. Yeah. I can't fix teeth. I don't have any slaves. So laughing gas, now we're getting to a happy ending. Laughing gas was discovered by an English chemist, Joseph Priestley in 1772, but no one used it as an anesthetic until 1844. On December 10th of that year, Horace Wells, a dentist from Hartford, Connecticut. It's fucking the Americans. Yeah. Attended a lecture at which people were entertained with laughing gas. So he went to a laughing gas party. We need those still. I don't know why those stopped. Yeah. I mean, they're still around, kind of. I mean, yeah, a little bit. No, never mind. They're here. In high school. It's also called a rave. A guy at a rave will sell you that experience for $5. A balloon. Wells noticed that a person under its influence scraped his shin on a heavy bench and yet showed no signs of pain. So some guy. Like some guy was like, ha ha ha. He immediately thought of using the gas as an anesthetic, but before giving it to others, he decided to try it on himself. The very next day he sat down at his own operating chair and inhaled the gas until he lost consciousness. Then a colleague extracted a wisdom tooth. What? It was a historic event. Couldn't he do the test without yanking a tooth? No, because he wanted to see if you could yank a tooth and it wouldn't hurt. And of course it didn't hurt because you were passed out. You do something else like to a hand maybe. I don't know. The laughing gas discovery must have been amazing. Oh my god. When the guy discovered it and he was just like, yeah, I don't know. I'm just, I'm sorry. Like I was saying, I'm just, if you look at some of these theorems, hee hee hee hee. Oh god. Look what I found. In 1873 Colgate mass produced the first toothpaste in a jar. Just a few years later, 1885, the first toothbrush was mass produced. In America. That's dental work. It's a little bit of dental work. Oh yeah, we can use that. It's a little bit of dental work going on in the background. We're at a dentist's office right now. But that's crazy thing is that that's the first time it was mass produced. So up until 1885, the common Joe couldn't afford a toothbrush. Yeah it's just, look, like you said, I mean the smells coming from mouths. We were disgusting. It just must have been awful. We were the grossest. Okay, this is how gross Americans are. Were. Are. Most Americans did not pick up on the dental trend to brush their teeth until after World War II. Oh my god. The soldiers stationed abroad brought the concept of good dental health back to the States. Wow. So my grandma. Yeah, your grandma's fucking gross. Even though she was English. Most people's grandmas. So my grandparents were disgusting. So all those, Teddy Roosevelt. Now picture all the guys from the 20s. And the flappers. The cute flapper chicks. The burlesque joes. Which just smells like dead maggots. Like just horrifying. Really and I don't want to say what I thought. I don't want to say it. No? I mean it just, there were a lot of whores then. Oh fuck the smell of a whore's mouth. Whore breath must have just been like. Unrivaled. It must have just. Unrivaled. I'm glad I said it. No because when I think about all this stuff I just keep thinking about sex. Yeah. I'm just about to do you from behind. Oh god. Can I do you from a different room? Is that possible? Okay I'm going to get in a Buick and you're going to stand on the driveway. Is there any way for me to just do this from a completely different town? I'd say go underwater but I know that you'll die. Because that's where the ghost of water lives. There's water ghosts in there. Holy fuck. I mean seriously. Look gross. Gross. I'm sorry we had to do this one. I know I just I think positive. Let's we'll go negative first. Yeah. Disgusting humans. Disgusting solutions. Yes. All horrible. Horrible. I mean obviously they were trying. Yeah. But I can't believe that nobody knows. I mean because like if a president like serves you know if like a president went to war it's like he's a hero. Yeah. This dude was fucking walking around. George Washington was walking around. Incredible pain. With just nonstop mouth pain. And he had and then he got fake monster teeth. And he got fake monster teeth. He must be pissed that people think he had wooden teeth. He must be like that's nothing. I wish I had fucking wooden teeth. Are you fucking kidding? No I had every other thing. Every other thing was in my mouth attached with wires. Oh god. What is this a mousetrap? Okay put it in. I mean imagine that year when he put in the one that just fucking hurt like shit and he had to wear it for a year. You know he just opens this box and he's like oh gosh. It's giant. Oh ow. Ow. Sent for another one. Ow. How long you think it'll be? One year? Okay. Ow. Ow. Ow. Just walks around owing. Morning George. Ow. Oh god. Here George you want some partially curdled milk? We gotta act out good. Morning guys. No chewing. Ow. Yeah he must just drink milk all the time. Great breath. Like soft cheese. Yeah hot milk. Like what do you drink? What do you like? I know what I have. I would puree stuff. Like you can't there was no puree. You just like oh applesauce again? Cool. Yeah that's it. He's got the mat. Oh fuck. Well listen. You feel better about the colonial times? I feel better about my mouth. Right? Yes. You floss? No I don't even need to. I don't even need to floss shit. There's been a toothbrush in my mouth with toothpaste on in the last two weeks. I'm better than our forefathers. Yeah you are. Yeah. You know when you don't brush your teeth in one night how gross your mouth feels? It feels and smells. No just add 80 years on. Oh and just multiply that by never having had that experience. Oh yeah. The first time a guy must use a toothbrush he must have been like. Kissing. What the fuck? Did people kiss? I can't imagine they did. They could not have been kissing. How could they possibly? That's why it's French kissing. They brought that over like dental tools. Yes. Yes. They were like you know if you chew on this gum you can actually put your tongue inside of your loveliest face. He's like but her mouth smells like shit. Yeah chew this not kiss. Go ahead and wipe with this for a little bit. Wipe with this. Here you go. Oh now you want to kiss me. Kiss here. Yes okay now huh. Now we're working on the toothbrush for the genitals for bathing is still weird. And then an anus brush. Oh wee wee yeah we are French. Anus brush. There was probably a guy at one point who was like so I got the patent for my anus brush. They were like I don't think it's going to work. I don't think so Jimmy. I don't think so. Well we should probably end on anus brush. Yeah I mean why not. Sure. That one went long. Good. Okay next week we're going to cover a little Prohibition. Oh shit awesome. I love it. Great characters of the Prohibition. Love it. Or just one. Yeah whatever. Whoopee. Boink. Hi everybody this is Gareth Reynolds from the Dala Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. Wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up July 22nd through the 25th. I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison Wisconsin. August 5th I'll be in Phoenix Arizona at CB Live. And I'll be at the Rally Improv August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas Texas August 19th. Join me there or join me the next night August 20th at the State Theater in Austin or Texas if that doesn't work for you. Join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane Washington August 26th. The following night I'll be at the Tacoma.