 I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickling podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. I'm going to do a little bit of a mingle. That's the beginning. That's a horrible beginning. Girl. This one's about baseball too. Okay. The roof went over so well. The roof? The roof is gold. There have been 128 forfeits in 139 years of professional baseball. Okay. The last one was on January 4th, 1974. Okay. Also known as Tencent Beer Night in Cleveland. Right. I knew it. I assumed you've heard this story. Yes. I don't know everything, but I know when you said the last forfeit was that year. That's what started to make me think of that. On May 29th, 1974, the Cleveland Indians lost a game to the Texas Rangers in Texas. It included a bench clearing brawl and the fans threw beer and food on the Indians. Out of context, that sounds awful. Thanks for the land, dickhole. Pour beer on him. I didn't mean the team. They went on and just found American Indians. They call him ketchup in his hair. So Indian fans were holding a grudge against the Rangers when they came to town a week later. Sure. So they come to Cleveland and you know how these fights work. It was a real fight. Some fights, okay, so a Ranger slid hard, which means he went into the second baseman really hard. Yeah. And the players thought it was too hard. That's part of baseball, though. Yeah. But there's this weird line you can cross. There is a lot of weird etiquette in baseball. There's a lot of, it's like literally like one thing is fine and the next thing that's the same thing. Yeah. That's fucking bullshit. There's just the thing about it when you watch it, you go, well, that's horse shit. And then someone has to get hurt. Yeah, okay, sure. That's baseball. Makes sense. Sounds like laws. So the Indians thought that he slid in too hard and the next time that guy came up to bat, they threw one at his head or over his head. Gave him a little chin music. A little chin music it's called, message sent, right? And then he, his next pitch, he bunted. Pitcher picked it up. He gave the pitcher a little forearm. Then the first baseman came down and punched him in the face. And then it was on. And then everybody leaves. And that's like a real brawl. So there's certain brawls in baseball. Some brawls are like in the movie Animal House at the end when the band goes into the alley and just slowly squishes in. Some fights are like that where everyone's just kind of pushing against each other. Nobody really wants to fight. My horn is bent, but nobody actually fights. Caught in your zipper there, my friend. And then there's fights like this where it's real and the players get all fucking fired up. And the fans get super into it. There's brawls for me like when the Giants played the Cardinals in 87 or 88. I still remember this fight. To this day, because Ozzie Smith is one of the best short stops defensively ever. And Will Clark slid in a second and Ozzie punched him in the back of the head. And for the rest of my life, Ozzie Smith is one of the best baseball players of all time. And anytime someone says anything, they go, yeah, but he's a bitch. Like I still hold a little... Yeah, but that guy's a fucking bitch. And everyone's like, what? I'm like, when did you fucking push Will Clark in the back of the head? When? In 1987. Was that Rain Man? February 4th, 1987. Ozzie punched him in the back of his head. Definitely contusion. So you hold on to shit. Like it just sinks in there as a baseball fan. And especially a week later, it's fresh. And the fans go there expecting... Like the fans go there expecting there to be violence. They want their team to do something back. It's true, right? They're like, oh no, I'm paying them. This ticket's not just for games, it's for revenge. I went through a fight and a baseball game broke out. So it's one of those kind of brawls. It's a serious one. It sticks with them. And when everything calmed down a little bit, the Indians went back to their dugout. Then the fans just threw beer and threw shit at them. So it was a little bit worse this year. A little bit worse. An Indian player had to be held back from going into the stands to fight a fan. Always a great fan. That was until the 70s and early 80s though. There were always baseball players like, oh, Reggie Smith went into the crowd and beat up a guy. Yeah, okay, yeah, I get it. As a fan, that has to be kind of awesome. It's got to be. I got to him so much that he crossed the professional line with me. Okay, once I was in college and Larry Johnson, who became a famous basketball player, was on UNLV. And I yelled something about him, about his mom. On the court, he turned and started walking towards me. Eye contact. Huge man. I mean, a monster. The monster of a human being. Just walking towards me, full eye contact, and two of the players grabbed him and pulled him away. He was about to punch me in the face. You know, I think I like his chances in that. I think he wins that one. I don't think I like my face's chances. What's that? I don't think there's a podcast with that. Why do you, 20 years later, still have a fish-shaped mark in your head? Well, now Dave, why do you only eat mush? What is it about mush that really gets you going? I like mush. It's a mush eater. He's trying to punch him in the back of his head. Okay, so to top it all off, Billy Martin was the manager of the Rangers. Okay. Which brings in a whole new... I guess we should get into Billy Martin. Billy Martin was like no other manager that has ever been involved. I don't think I know who Billy Martin was. Okay, Billy Martin was fucking incredible. So he would win any way he could. He was a huge alcoholic. Like he should have gotten... A lot of use. At the end of every year they should have been like, and the most alcoholic he goes to. Billy, come on up here. And he'd fall over and they'd put a crown on his head. He won again, guys. He's really drinking, guys. He's a real drinker. So when he was a player in 1952, he was given the job as the Yankees enforcer. So whenever someone needed to be hurt, not even the pitchers, they would have him do it. He was the second baseman, which is unheard of. It's harder to be a subtly aggressive. That's the second baseman. Exactly. And I'll give you one example. Here's a quote from him with a fight he started. Courtney was coming down to second. Instead of tagging him, I wound up and hit him right between the eyes with the ball. I knocked off his cap and broke his glasses. So he's throwing the ball at guys running around. He's just a crazy asshole. And he used to start fights all the time, like off. He'd always get in fights in bars. He was just that guy. He's always fighting. So he would also... He would cheat. As a manager, he was such a fucking cheater. And then he would always say he was cheating, and then he would get fired for it. See, that's a dead giveaway. He would be like... He would hate that another player on another team has thrown a spitball. So then he'd have his team throw spitballs the whole game. And then after the game, he'd go, that's right, I had my boys throw spitballs. And they'd be like, well, now you're fired. You lost by nine and you're fired. Because you can cheat in baseball, but you can't talk about it. It's one of those stupid things. You can cheat. Everyone expects you to cheat. But if you say you're cheating, then everyone's like, oh, come on, Larry. It's like when a politician gets busted for something. Exactly. Every other politician's like, how dare he? Oh, my Lord. How dare he? I can't believe he fucked whores with money. I've never done that. But he was a great manager. OK. So he kept getting fired and hired. He used to order his players to purposely try to hit opposing players when they were running. He used to order his pitcher to hit the batters when they're throwing the ball. He was rehired and fired by the Yankees five times in like six years, not like not like over like a 40 year span, like six years. Baby, I'm sorry. Take me back one more time. I don't know, Billy. He got into a fight with one of his own pitchers at a hotel and ended up breaking an arm and the pitcher broke a rib as the manager, as the manager. So the manager's fighting the player. Yes. All right. I was on a nationally televised baseball game. I think it was in 79. The best player in baseball was Reggie Jackson. Him and Reggie Jackson had to be restrained from each other in the dugout while I mean, 20 million people are watching. So who like if you're in charge and someone's trying to break it up, like you have authority to be like, no, you're fired. Let me hit him. Let me hit him. I can still remember it like vividly. And it was in 79 because I was a kid and I was like, what's happening? What's wrong with these grownups? Daddy, what's going on? I don't know. I need a drink. Shut up. You're the wrong daddy. So that's so that's like the level of guy that we're looking for. Sure. In this situation where you want you want a calm, cool sort of head to deal with things. That's not really what we got. After the game, a reporter asked Billy Martin, are you going to take your armor to Cleveland? To which Martin replied, nah, they won't have enough fans there to worry about. So he's like, you know, he's digging in. He's digging in bulletin board material. Cleveland now is not a very good team. So they when you're not a very good team and you get in a fight with another team, then the fans have something to cheer about. All of a sudden, and all of a sudden, everyone goes to the game to watch whatever is going to happen. There's something to do at least. Right. Yeah. So the Cleveland radio guys jump on it and they're getting everyone all fucking fired up. Pete Franklin, his famous radio guy there on his sports lab program, just keeps talking about it and talking about there's going to be revenge. We're going to get these guys. So he was like, you know, inciting a brawl. Sheriff, the local newspaper printed a cartoon of the game showing Chief Wahoo, which was there. Is there a mascot horribly racist mascot holding a pair of boxing gloves with the caption, be ready for anything. So everybody was not right about this. Oh, my God. And this chief wahoo. It's so I know a white guy's first attempt at a mascot name. What's for lunch? Wait, are we going to do two and three? Now that we're done there. Good. OK, you should. You got the perfect name. You know it. OK, I feel like I'll see you guys later. OK, bye guys. All right. Thanks for coming by. You're welcome. Can I call you chief? Absolutely not. That's racist. That's why I said, so. All right. So let's talk about Cleveland at the time, because I think that also went into this. So if you want to talk about the state of Cleveland, you have to talk about the Cuyahoga River, which runs through downtown. Sure. It was so polluted that in the 50s, 1952, it caught on fire for the ninth time. Now, Dave, I am not a smart man and I claim to be. Go ahead. I'm not used to hearing about water catching on fire. What are we going to put it out there? The river. No. Oh, well. Oh, shit. It's making it worse. Oh, this is such a catch point to fire. Love water. Put more fire on it. No. How do you put it? Yeah, I think we just let her burn. Fire comes up. He's like, boy, I am bad. This is you know, this is the ninth time it happened. Every single time I am confused. You know, should we just let it burn again? I really don't know. I just let it cry it out. Normally, I let the fire cry it out. In 1952, it didn't get that much national attention, which to me is the most amazing thing. That's amazing. No one. Everyone was like, hey, here, River caught fire in Cleveland. Cleveland? Oh, really? What do you think the weather is going to be like? Like no one gave a shit. Of course the river caught fire in Cleveland. It's fucking Cleveland. It's a river. It's on fire. Ain't they supposed to burn? They're supposed to burn, right? Mississippi burning. The list goes on and on. I'm from Pittsburgh. All of our rivers are on fire. Oh, yeah. Lakes don't burn. Rivers burn. I bet we could find a lake that's burned in America. I bet we could find a lake that's burned. We'll try it. We'll look for one. A burning lake. So in 1969, it caught fire again. And then it was 69. So people were like, whoa, we've been reading books and stuff. Right. Earth's pretty cool. We're not supposed to have it on fire. The flames reached five stories high. Oh, my God. So it exploded. So this river is just so full of shit. Yeah. It's just toxic. Gas and flammable shit. Yeah, it's everything you could think of. It's just not even a river. No, it's not even a river. It's not even really a river. I'm sure if you jumped in it, you'd be like, I can feel my bones. And then you just went under. It just came out glowing and floating. It burned for about 30 minutes. Just think about the guy who was walking over a bridge and just tossed a cigarette in. It lit. I should probably get the fuck out of here. That's not good. I thought that thing about the river catching on fire was a rumor. I owe my mom an apology. She was not lying. Oh, my. Oh, there goes my boat. Oh, boy. Some guys in a rowboat. Oh, Jesus. Oh, my options are not good here. So environmentalists targeted Cleveland. It was like the... And it still is. Cleveland is like the dirty city when you think of the dirty city. Outrage led to the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency, which formed in 1970. So when Republicans say, we don't need the APA, it's just hurting businesses, you can say, rivers were on fire. Well, I think they've also... They don't need the APA. They've made that pretty clear. They have made that clear because they would like rivers to be on fire. Yes, that's fine. You know what you're doing? You're stopping me from making money and being able to have rivers be on fire. Look, fiery rivers lead to bridges leads to jaws. Thank you. Thank you. Who puts out the fires? Fire River putters. Who puts out the river fires? Think of all the fire river putters that don't have jobs. That's what happens is when the fireman comes to the scene and the river's on fire, he's like, I think this is more the river guys. Don't we got those river fire put out especially, guys? Call the rivermen. The rivermen are coming. Oh. Yeah, that's fine. So Cleveland lost about 600 factories in the decade before the 10 cent beer game. Jesus Christ. So all the big industrial operations were like, oh, we can't dump shit in the river. Let's go somewhere else. So they all bailed. That's sad. Cleveland lost about 170,000 people living there between 70 and 80. So they totally bottomed out. The city council was discussing bankruptcy. The city? Yeah, the whole city. I think Cleveland is the first city to ever declare bankruptcy. Well, there's something. So they're fucked up. So it's a fucked up city. Yeah, the rivers are on fire and they have no money. And now this team's coming to town that everyone wants to beat up. So what you're telling me is there's a lot of brewing tension in people in general. There's a brewing tension. Not the city you want to bump shoulders with someone on the street. There's a brewing tension in Cleveland. And what could go better than 10 cent beer night? Can you see anything that might go wrong? No, absolutely not. No. I think when you have cheap alcohol and angry people in a crowded environment, good things happen. Oh, OK. You're going to like this story. Now, wait a minute. Are you trying to tell me something to the contrary? So the idea behind the promotion was to attract more fans to the game by offering 12 ounces of beer for just 10 cents, which is a limit with a limit of six per purchase. OK, so. So now hold on. What? You heard six per purchase. Yeah. And you thought I said six per person. I said six per purchase. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't think you said six per person. I thought that's what that meant. No, that means one dude could only buy six at a time. Oh, that's it. Holy shit. Why is that even a fucking rule? What is that like? Like, how could you carry if you want to get like alcohol poisoning, you have to walk twice to the stand four times like, well, how is that? You can tell you whoever came up with 10 cents a beer nights a fucking moron. Six per purchase, too. All right, we got it. Sounds good. We got it. We got this thing shut down tight. Cross the T's, dot the S. There was no system in place to stop someone from buying beer and handing it to a teenager and then buy more beer. There was literally no control. They were just taking dimes and handing people beers. I mean, dimes. Dimes. Dimes. And tickets to get to the game where I think 50 cents, bleacher seats were 50 cents. So you could get plowed on a dollar and get a seat. Bleacher seats are the worst seats in a baseball stadium. They're in the outfield. There were all the rats. That's where even to this day, most people, if you're in a family, you're not going to sit in the bleachers because bad shit still happens. The bleachers are sleeping from like vodka. Yeah. Yeah. I last time I was in the bleachers, the Dyer Stadium, there's a guy in front of me on heroin falling asleep. Cool. Like, that's the bleachers. Well, that was the mascot. That says L.A. OK, so it was hot. OK, good. Oh, even better. Early June humidity is when humidity hits Cleveland. So there was a big clog at the concession stands. But, Dave, they were allowed to do six per purchase. Why was there a clog? I don't understand. It is weird. They'd already thought this through. Right. Yeah. OK. It was the wrong time to do it because that's right when college gets out. So every college kid in the world was like, let's go to this fucking game and get plowed. So and you can show up at a baseball game two hours early and get in. So they have been drinking forever and also a lot of them by all the reports already came plowed. Right. So it started out as like a booze cruise before it even. You imagine having to play that night. You'd probably be like, this is just not good. Is this going to go well? It's got a bad feeling. I have a bad feeling about tonight. OK, so the number was twice as expected of people. They expected that normally they got about 10,000 or under. And because of the promotion, they expected a couple more thousand. They thought it'd be like 12,000, 25,000 plus show up. So they're already like, hey, successful. Yeah. Technically. Now to the game. Oh, good. Out of the game. I forgot there was a game. Oh, this is quite a ballgame. The Rangers took the lead in the second inning on a home run. Just a few pitches later, a heavyset woman sitting near first base jumped the wall. Oh, my God. Ran to the Indians on deck circle. Bared her enormous breasts to an appreciative applause from all the teenagers. I mean, the umpire is like, well, this is just not. I mean, what are we in any one second? Second inning. And the only reason I waited till the second is because they had to wait that long to get their beers to their seat. Yeah, true. Yeah. So and I've seen pictures of this woman. She is like a middle aged. She looks like somebody's mom. She's like a middle aged woman with her hair all done up and a big leg. Just flash in the crowd. It's fucking crazy because she's shitfaced in the second inning. She's and then she's like smiling. And then they had to haul her off because she tried to kiss the head umpire who was like, I can't be kissed right now. It's like this is behind me. If you want to go after the game, you have to kiss me or whatever. Meet me there. But you're out of here right now. Right now, I'm going to do something. You're out of here. But don't believe that. I love you. I love you. I love you. Your breasts are huge. You're out of here. Call me as soon as you can. Right away. So she looked like she looked she literally looked like she was like 40 40s ish. She it's crazy. The moment caught her. Rivers are on fire. It's a different time. So then the stadium had the the announcer Herb. Herb scored. Employ the fans not to run on the field. Attention everybody. Please let's not run on the field tonight. File this under announcements we didn't think we had to make. Don't run on the field. Don't show your tits and don't try to kiss the officials. I can't believe I'm making this announcement on 10 cent beer night. I cannot for a second. There's new rules for 10 cent beer night. There's no murdering. We'll get to that. Oh boy. Murder. Now I should add firecrackers were going off the whole time. Shit show. So whether it was a coincidence or just lucky all of these kids brought firecrackers. Now when I was growing up back then firecrackers started firecracker season started like June 1st and went till August the end of August like you just had firecrackers. Yeah they were just fucking everyone. Someone would always go to Chinatown pick up a bunch of bricks bring it back. I also might be one of those guys who went to China and made a little bit of money. I might have made a little bit of money on the side. I'm a selling firecrackers. So this just dude's loaded with firecrackers just throwing them everywhere and setting them off. OK. Sounds like a lot of fun. Sounds great. Sounds like what you want in a ballgame. That's not scary. No not at all especially for the families go out there. So explosions are just going off. There's smoke. So it created like a like a war zone sort of. They have to be careful. They're not going because they could relight the river on fire if they're careful. Fire River guys come on. So smoke was just dripping through the stadium from exploding gunpowder. There's also a lot of pot smoke. And then my favorite thing of all is the war drums. OK. So it's the Cleveland Indians. Yeah with Chief Wahoo he demands them. So these idiots bring war drums and they sit them in the bleachers and they go. The Cleveland idiots. Better. Less offensive. So the idiots. So these so these they would so wild. Wild is all going on. There's like this weird. So there's firecrackers. Right. Smoke. Smoke. People are wasted. It's hot as fuck. And there's war drums. Everybody's angry. Yeah. Can you imagine staying for more than like I'd be like get the fuck out of here. Nobody was like we should wrap this up right. This seems like it's going. Am I just crazy or is this horrible. This seems like it's going in a really bad direction. I mean those are war drums. Are you hearing the war drums. Am I the only one who feels like Jews in Poland right now. Get the fuck out maybe. So it's like a fucking war. Right. The Rangers hit their second home run in the fourth inning. To fans delight I'm sure. That's when a man entirely naked. Oh boy. Ran onto the field. Oh God. And slid into second. Oh. OK. So I can't. This guy you started that wasn't a fan by the end. I love this man. Oh do you know how. Slid. Do you know how in pain he was. Oh the dirt the gravelly. Oh it's all up. You can't slide on that shit. No. It's all up in your ass. Like stuck in there. It's just horrifying. That poor son of a bitch. And then he ran off. They didn't catch him. How did they not catch him. What. Naked and like bloody. They also might not have wanted to catch. That's fair too. I guess you let him run at that point. So early on the demand for the beer surpassed the Indians ability to give it out a concession stance. So they ran out of beer. No. OK. So someone decided to have the fans line up outside the outfield fences and drive the beer trucks up. So they drove the beer trucks directly to people. Why. They. OK. So yeah. So they're out of beer in the stadium. Well not out but they're they're not able to keep up with it. There's just the lines are so huge. People get more out of more hands on deck. Yeah. They need more hands. They need more beer on deck. They need more hands on deck. Not more drugs on deck. They got a lot of that. So they're like let's get a beer. Let's get three beer trucks. Put them outside the fence and then people can line up down there too. OK. Are you not. How are you not on board with that. I just it doesn't seem like a good call. It seems like it sounds like it's going to go badly. It sounds like it's going to work out fine. Well I think you know and I feel like you're lying. I'm not lying is the right word. OK. Making stuff up. Sure. So. The the people serving the beer at each beer truck it's two teenage girls. What the 70s were so fucking insane. I mean they were honestly. I mean who they're like girls after after school their job. Can you imagine like even in the heat of all this the planning of all this get the beer trucks to the outfield. Who's who's serving them giant men there. Yeah take care of the situation. Giant men. Yeah. And just and just like five of them just standing they're not doing anything. Yeah. You have giant men and teenage girls and I'm sure they're dressed in like little tops. Oh my God. You want to be here like shut up and kiss me. Give me my six per purchase. So the line started back up because the girls can't deal with the crush of idiots needing 10 cent beers. You know I guess they're walking up with a where they're walking up with 50 cents and say give me five because they don't even care if they all get back to their seat. You can drop four and still have a really good time. Game. There is no game at this point. I mean this is the problem I think is that they're not going to be able to meet the demand. Oh that's what I feel like is happening. That is so that is such an optimistic idea of how this turns out. So the guys in line can't take it at the beer trucks. So they pick up the table in front of the girls and throw it over the beer truck. So just get that out of the way. We don't need this divider. You know this is making it harder for us to get all the beer fast. Hey Larry there's something between me and the beer. Throw it. So the girls just walk off. Oh the girls like yep I gotta go. Oh I am 17 and not interested. This ends in death. This is getting rapey. Yeah real rapey. So now it's free beer. Now it's free beer night. Now the guys aren't even using cups and they're just drinking straight out of the tap. Like it's just dudes lined up taking hits off the tab. Men are just monsters. Oh my god. If you've ever been into a public bathroom for men you will then you'll know everything you need to know about how horrible we are as creatures. So they're just sucking down the beer out of the taps. It's like Vikings pillaging a town. They're celebrating. They've won. They threw the table. So now is when Billy Martin gets into the act. So a normal manager would serve the environment and say okay I'm going to hang back on this one. I'm not going to do my usual Billy Ball stuff. I'm just going to be really calm because his whole thing was about agitating the other team and getting them upset and off their game. Like that was his game. But he. So he didn't he didn't do that. He's also probably plowed. Like yeah. I'm giving the odds like 80 percent that Billy is. There's a picture of him in this whole melee standing out in front of the dugout smoking a cigarette and looking back at the crowd. Oh my god. Yeah. So there's a close call at third in which one of his players got spiked. So he runs out and starts arguing with the umpires and now when he argued it was like one time he threw dirt at an umpire like he threw dirt. He picked up dirt and threw it at the umpire's chair. Very aggressive. And then he tried to and then he tried to later get a friend to take out a hit on that. Well you know what. That makes me feel like maybe the first thing wasn't that aggressive. Now that I in retrospect I know the comparison. Yeah. Did I read all the stuff that Billy did. No it's OK if I didn't. He said he did a lot of shit like that. So but he really tried to take he really tried to get a hit man to kill an umpire. I mean it's a very horrible thing to do. In the fourth inning when the Indians batter smacked a line drive only at the fourth fucking inning. Oh fuck me. In the fourth inning when the Indians smacked a line drive back to the Rangers pitcher. Forky Jenkins Jenkins cannot get out of the way and the ball hit him in the stomach. As he writhed in pain the fans began to clap and then chant hit him harder hit him harder hit him harder. It's the whole stadium. Oh my god. Now it's like a gladiator death pit. Yeah. If you're the Rangers. It definitely now feels. Are you not entertained. Tatters fucking eyes out. Hit him harder. He was like what a bunch of savages. Cutting off cutting off. What's happening. In the fifth inning two men in the outfield got into the act jumping the wall and moaning the outfield the Rangers outfielders. Love them. The players watched hands on hips shaking their heads as park security chased chased one after another across the diamond. I mean so far there's four people. They've all been pretty crazy and naked. So when Billy comes out to argue. Yeah because the building happens in the sixth I think so he comes out to argue and you know their players hurt they've taken out of the game so now the Rangers are upset. The fans are you know cheering it. Yeah. Awesome. So now plastic cups start raining down. Oh God. And then on the field while the arguments happening mostly still full of beer because because it's worth who gives a fuck. It's tap water. It's the cheapest. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my God. Yeah. The beer quality. I would just buy eight and then just throw them all and go buy eight more. It's not even for drinking. I need eight there for washing. I'm gonna go wash up. We're washing with beer. It's cheaper. So and remember this is a time when they didn't shut down beer sales. Oh right. There was a time when now they shut them down the seventh inning. Yeah. But back in the old days you could order a beer on your way out. Which is not good. It really is smart. You going to your car? Have a beer. But it is like it is true your mentality and like the last inning of a baseball game if you could drink would just be like fucking plow. Oh yeah. Get plowed. Get plowed. You can't buy beer past the seventh. Oh my what? This is fucking what? Not even one? Jesus Christ what the fuck happened to this country? I thought it was America last time I checked. Oh okay guess I'll just go piss or fuck you. Can I have a hot tub? A hot tub? That's the round meat thing. I think you should go. I'm going to the bathroom. I know we can see. So as Martin returned to the dugout, classic Billy Martin, he blew kisses into the stands. Oh boy. Then someone tossed a bunch of firecrackers into the Rangers bullpen. Oh no. So that's where all the pitchers sit. That's where the pitchers are warming up throwing the ball. So it was not going well. The bullpen was ordered evacuated by the umpires. These umpires must have just been like this. I wish somebody would take a hit out of me. You know umpires also have this thing where they're like we're going to finish this god damn game. We're going to no matter what I can have one arm and I'll finish the fucking game. So the public address announcer. Also that means the pitchers have to warm up on the mound instead of in the bullpen which would take longer. So it's all delayed. I think they'd rather that. It's delaying everything. I think they'd rather that. The announcer meanwhile is like what do you need me to say? The announcer came on and reminded spectators not to litter the field. What do you think happened? I bet they'd I bet they listened and ceased. This massive rain of cups just flew down. The next thing is throw as many cups as you can on the field. So they decided that they couldn't make any more announcements because the announcements weren't going well. Well this crowd you can't announce things to these people. They don't take kindly to announcements. The grounds crew had not sat down since the second inning and now the outfield fans were just using them as targets trying to hit them with beer. They took all the Rangers away from them. So whenever they went to clean up beer they just got hit by more beer. So it really honestly sounds like you just don't want to try to solve things here. Solving is the wrong move. It's the unwinnable situation. It's allowing. Just allow. Get out of the way. It could not be less wittable. So I imagine the ground crew guys just stopped going out there. Oh my god. Another woman jumped out of the stands waving. Although she didn't take her clothes off the crowd chanted her for her to. When ushers arrived she attacked them. Oh my god. The surprised ushers forced her to the ground prompting the crowd to boo and start shouting police brutality. This is the same crowd that just said hit him harder right? Yes. Moments earlier. There's not a lot of logic going on at this point. You'll find there was a dime of beer that night. So logic. Not big. Not a big thing. Now this is an interesting time to point out that it did not occur to the Indians organization to request an additional police presence at the ballpark for Tencent Beer Night. If any municipal police were in the stadium that night they were off duty and quite possibly as drunk as anyone else. And even if you had John McClain in the fucking stands you don't want to be like I'm a cop everyone ready you'll die. You're a dead man. No. Guess how many security they had present. How many actual guards? How many security guards? Jesus well. Twenty five thousand. I mean they had to have fifty. They had fifty. Oh my god. So few. This is one per five hundred. But this is not a regular five hundred. This is like a five hundred that's like the three hundred. Yeah. This army is mighty. And the fact that cops haven't been called yet is remarkable. Why are they still doing it? I have no idea. What do you feel this? Do you feel where we're headed? At some point what do you do? You can't stop it. If you shut everything off that is just a riot heading downtown that started at your ballpark right? But we're in the unsolvable situation. Oh we are. There's no solution. No there's no solution. I'm pretty glad there's no solution. This is that point in the movie where the two characters look at each other and go well I think we're both going to die solving this. The two main characters. Wait that's not supposed to happen. Wait a minute. One man tossed a tennis ball on a center field then scrambled after it. I love this guy. Who is this guy? He threw a ball at a center field. He brought a tennis ball to a baseball match. He threw the tennis ball out and then he ran after it. Did he say go get it boy in between? After throwing the ball back into the seats he led park security on a little jog pausing at one point to hug another fan who jumped out to greet him. The ushers grabbed the other guy away while the dude he threw the ball leaped back into the stands in the junket mask. So now there were people like oh we can get away with this shit. Well that is sort of the thing like normally at like a sporting event if there's like a streak or something like the fans and the teams don't they don't like that person. They want it over they want to get back to the game. This guy's fucking running around like Rob Ford. He's getting hugs. Fucking partying. Then a rain of beer became rocks. Batteries and golf balls and anything else. Now Dave those are harder than liquid. They seem a little bit better. Batteries. Batteries. Like a virtual car. People used to bring batteries to games. Remember Santa Claus got hit with batteries in Philadelphia. I do not remember that. We'll talk about Philadelphia fans at one point. Santa got hit with batteries. I think it was batteries or else it was snowballs. It was really hard snowballs. Guaranteed. Guaranteed coal. Probably. Yeah that's coal. The next inning Ranger Mike Hargrove went into first base. So he's playing first base in the outfield. And he was pelted with hot dogs and cups of spit. That's tough. What would you rather be hit with? That's tough. That is tough. I don't think you're hit with a hot dog. Oh much rather. The other one's like prison. Oh that's like it's all like that's just that's like. You know you know there were guys peeing in cups and throwing them. Oh yeah. Because no one even could get near a bathroom. Oh my god a bathroom. Imagine. Imagine that bathrooms throwing up situation. You just walk in there it's going to sound like a fucking vomitorium. Like a nine dimes lifting. That threw up a dime. He said and I quote he was surrounded by pounds and pounds of meat estimating he had 20 pounds of hot dogs thrown at him. That's not a cartoon. 20 pounds. How many? He was saying so many hot dogs are thrown at him. I mean that's like 800 hot. I mean that's a lot of hot. That's a lot of hot dogs. At one point he was. 20 pounds. At one point he was nearly struck with an empty gallon jug of Thunderbird. That one was in the that was when the Rangers actually started to get worried for their safety. So this is the first time they're like if that had hit me I could be a dead guy. But a gallon jug of Thunderbird. Batteries was cute. It's Tencent beer night. Why are you bringing it. And how are you getting a gallon jug of Thunderbird into the fucking stadium. Put a wig on it and be like my son and I are excited for the first game. That's Bobby. This is Bobby my boy. You like Bobby take a whiff of his head. He's potent. No beer for me thank you. I'm drinking my boy tonight. Now streakers were stripping leisurely on the field of play while the game went on abandoning their clothes in a pile in left center field. So they're just running out and taking off their clothes and there's so many of them that no one can stop them. So there's so many of them that they've like created an area for clothes on the field. Throw your clothes over there. That's where the dirty clothes go before you streak. Run around here. Do whatever. But the main rule is get your clothes in the pile. There's like no rules at all at this point. There's Dave. Dave. Yeah but at least on the field there was some sort of thing but now it's just like people are taking off their clothes. Fans are athletes tonight. One night only. Oh fuck me. Okay. A contingent of fans along the third base side began removing the padding on the left field wall. Either through numbers or sheer force of will they nearly succeeded in taking a large chunk into the stands. The grounds crew abandoned its trash collection duties in the field and for the rest of the game tried to save the padding. So they're out of the equation. They're trying to save the thing that will cost a lot of money. Remember we just wanted the field to be clean. Now let's just make sure there's a field tomorrow. Almost got it into the stands. As the night wore on. War is the right word. War is completely correct. The crowd grew bolder. Packs of fans frequently scurried across the outfield. Entire packs. Packs. Tribes. They would just let them go. Just like, oh you have to be playing a game and just a hole hurt a dude. They outnumber us asshole. There's 80 in their pack. I ain't doing shit. I'm not going after that pack. No man that's a pack. I ain't going near a pack. I told you I'll catch a striker. I'll take one. I'll take one at a time. I'm not going after the pack. I don't do packs. I don't do packs. Oh fuck me. Nude packs. In the seventh inning, Raider announcers described the baseball fans and the crowd gathering their families and leaving the stadium like refugees. So the normal people are like, let's get the fuck out of here. Thought this would be more fun. This is not as fun as I thought. Let's go to the river. Hey Larry, you remember when I said as ten sent beer night a good idea and you were like, yeah? Yeah. You go fuck yourself. Fuck you bitch. The children are crying. The children and my crying. You're like a river on fire. That's a good song. That's a Billy Joel album. In the eighth, the announcers noticed owner Ted Bonda and other members of the Indians front office leaving the ballpark doing their best to look casual. So everybody. Who came up with this idea? Apparently this was sort of a common idea back then. Oh really? Yeah. We'll get to that at the end. Okay. I'm guessing this is kind of where they stopped thinking that was a good idea. Now we're onto the eighth and ninth innings. Some fans started throwing cherry bombs into the Rangers dugout. So now it's like the movie Warriors. Where is anybody going to live? Yeah. Yeah. No. Yes. Somebody killed Cyrus. He's going to fucking get revenge. I get you. In the ninth, the Indians mounted a rally scoring two runs to tie the game at five. So everyone should be happy. Well, the fans don't know there's a game. So that's part of the problem. And the winning run is second base. When a young man named Terry Urquick jumped from the outfield seats and ran toward Rangers outfield, outfielder Jeff Burrows. During the, the, okay. Now we all know there's one thing you don't do in these situations and that's touch a player. Yes. Cause that's the thing that's going to cause. That's going to be bad. Yeah. Very bad. Terry said, I just wanted to get his hat. Oh God. So I ran up behind Burrows and grabbed it and had it in my hand. And then I dropped it, which is surprising. You wouldn't think a really drunk kid. Yeah. It was also, he was drunk probably. And then he was like, I got it. I'm sure he looked back at his friends and he went, look at how he got it. I went down to pick it up and Burrows kicked me. Oh my God. And then Burrows fell down. Okay. So now where the Rangers are and they're dug out, you can't see everything. You can see like up to people's waists. Yeah. So all they see is their player going down. Okay. So now they think, shit, it's on. Oh Jesus. So Billy Martin looks at his players, grabs a bat and says, boys, let's go get them. What the fuck? The manager? He makes an amazing shot of the Rangers running across the field, holding bats like they're going to war. Cause they were. I hope that the guy beating the drum didn't stop. That guy's still duking and beating. Booga hawa, booga hawa, wahoo. In the name of chief wahoo, I command you to stop. So now the fans start pouring out of the stands. When Martin and his team reached the outfield, the Rangers found Burrows upset but unharmed. But making things worse, Martin's army had changed the landscape. Suddenly the wacky fun nudists were gone and the bad element was coming out of the stands. You know, the guys who sit in the stands going, look at that. Those guys were now, let's go down there and get some. Well this just stopped being cute. I'm about to show you why you shouldn't make more than me working at a factory, baseball boy. Give him the hat. Give him the hat. Boy wants the hat. Give it to your old boy. What did I say? Cause I can't remember. Hey, my boy wants to pitch for an inning, Mr. Martin. I think you let him, right? Out of the stands poured a mob that replaced the others and they were terrifying. They were armed. The Rangers looked around and saw people wielding chains, knives and clubs fashioned from pieces of stadium seats. So it's like the road warrior. It's like they have been out. It's like they've, they forgot that they have homes to go back to. And they've been fashioning weapons and getting ready for a battle. You know, how do you not notice a man's bringing chains into a game? You'd not know when a guy brings in a gallon jar of Thunderbird. I mean, it was all fucking, what is that a tiger? Bring it in. Like none of it made sense. What is that a nuclear bomb? Get it in here. Oh, you're Wolverine. Go ahead. He looks angry. Let him go. So the Rangers, 25 Rangers quickly found themselves surrounded by 200 angry drunks and more were tumbling over the wall on left field. It was basically an ambush and the Rangers were about to fight for their lives. Oh God. So the riot began. Players fighting with bats against anything they could do against the mob, full scale riot and there's no cops to be seen. So no one knows this is going on. So there's probably, at this point, probably about 20,000 fans. I mean, I would imagine there had to have been cops listening on their radios just giggling, right? Like they had to have known what was happening. Imagine what, imagine hearing, being a cop hearing that and thinking, I should get down there. No, you'd be like, my night is off. I'm going to sit here and I'm going to love this. I'm loving every minute of it. Okay. But now the Indian, the Indians manager had a realization. He's sitting in his dugout and he was like, I'm about to see a baseball team get killed. Oh my God. Or them kill other people. Yeah. So he ordered his players to grab their bats and run out and fight the mob. So okay. So he, God love him. God love him. But his idea is that he needs to now join the side of the Rangers to fight the mob. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, I think when you're picking sides in this fight. I don't know. I think you pick the pony that's. But are the fans going to attack the Indians? I'm going to guess they will. I'm going to guess they're not seeing uniforms at this point. Well, not everyone's out there. It was like 200 people. So the Indians charged onto the field with their bats and rescued the Rangers. Rescued? Well, they'd like got them out of the circle they were in. And now the ballplayers were on the offensive. But what is going on? So the game is abandoned. You'll read. I'm going to read the announcers now. I'll be Tom. I'll be Tate and you'll be score. Okay. Tom Hilgford has just been hit on the head. He'll be in infinite pain. He's bent over holding his head. This is an absolute tragedy. Absolute tragedy. The unbelievable thing is people keep jumping out of the stands after they see what's going on. Well, that shows you the complete lack of brain power on the parts of some people. There's no way I'm going to run onto a field if I see some baseball player waving a bat out there looking for somebody. This is tragic. The whole thing is degenerated now into just now we've got another fight going on with fans and ballplayers. Hargrove has got some kid on the ground and he's really administering a beating. Well, that fella came up and hit him from behind is what happened. Boy, Hargrove really wants a piece of him. I don't blame him at all. Oh, look at Duke Sims down there going at it. Yeah, Duke is in on it. Here we go again. An actual transcript from the game. He beat the shit out of him. He's like, well, I had no choice. He hit him. They're still competent. They're still doing play by play. They're riot. Doing their job. They won't take the night off. So the sight of 50 angry professional athletes armed with bats slowly turn the tide and stop the advance of the mob, taking advantage of what might have been their only opportunity to escape alive. The two managers led their players. This is the greatest part out of the dugouts and down in the tunnels, assisting the wounded as they went. Jesus. While the bench players formed a rear guard because those on the field that fought so hard to get out there. Sounds like Gettysburg. The ones that were out there were that were like the front line of the battle. So they were so wounded that the guys who were on the bench who were healthy players formed a rear guard like they're in the military. To get out. The bench is the infantry. Essentially. Helping the wounded. Helping the wounded. It's a baseball game. There had to be, I don't, the idea of watching, because it goes bad pretty much right away. But the idea when somebody who works on the administrative level is like, oh, this is a fucking nightmare. Like what, they probably spent a day being like, that'll be great. Yeah, we'll get them all out. We'll just get them in. Dime beers. Six per purchase. Exactly. That way we can keep them on. Yeah, exactly. And then they're just going to be happy. It's going to be a great time. It's going to be a great time. Commentators being like, I just smacked him right in the back of his head. If I was in this game, I know exactly what I would have done because I, I've been to games that were remotely close to like where the riot cops came down. Yeah. And what would you have done? What I used to do was me and my friends used to grab our beer and go up to the very top of the stadium and just watch. That's smart. Yeah. I'd have left. Well, you want to see it. So after the teams got out and into their down the tunnels, the mob found itself alone on the diamond. They stole everything that was not secured down. Anything that could be taken. They stole the bases. They swarmed the doors and banging on the doors and tried to get in. And the announcers just stared down at the melee, which continued for another 20 minutes. You score again. All right. They stole the bases. The security people are just totally incapable of handling this crowd. They just, well, short of the national guard, I'm not sure what would handle this crowd right now. It's unbelievable. Just unbelievable. People go back into the seats and others jump down to take their place. The bases are gone. I love that they're both are like, like that is such a sacrilege to them with all this violence going on. Jesus Christ. What happened to America? And now some are crawling back into the stands. New ones like my tag team wrestling. And now my favorite part of the story. So every stadium has an organist that plays different chants and cheers. I'm pretty excited. The organist does the only thing he can. He played, take me out to the ball. Oh my God. He was like, you know what? I can do something. I can do something. Maybe I can cheer everybody up. Take me out to the ball game. I like to picture a bunch of high level security officials having a huge conversation and him sneaking in being like, Hey guys, it's not going to matter once they hear this. Take me. Oh God, a man's been stabbed. A man's been stabbed. With a bass. Oh God, a man got stabbed with a bass. After taking a chair to the head, chief umpire Charlie shellac had a moment on the field when he looked down and saw a hunting knife had landed blade down in the grass behind his leg. He forfeited the game to the Rangers and ran. One of the Indian players was hit on the head with a piece of a chair from the stands. He was injured pretty bad. Now the only way to clear the field was to bring in the Cleveland SWAT team who came in and went bug fuck with their Billy clubs and their and their tear gas and put it and put an end to it. So after it's all right night. Oh yeah. Great night at the ball. Were you there last night? Holy shit. What a great game. I got the highlights boy. That guy got killed. That's the first game I've ever gone to that ended tied. No, I didn't like Cleveland's offense last night. Really wasn't there. They could have won in the end until they get pushed out. So Dan Coughlin is a sports writer said so now the sports writers are just up there watching it all in the press box. I had a few beers and I was leaving the stadium. I had my reporter's notebook with but I had my reporter's notebook with me. A dozen high school kids were standing on top of the rain just dug out yelling for them to come out and fight. I asked one of them what they thought they were doing. I told him the Rangers weren't even in the stadium anymore. Everyone that everyone is gone. When a kid came out of the crowd sucker punched me. Oh my God. It didn't faze me. I mean I could take a punch back that especially from a 15 year old. That's when I decided to leave. Oh come on and fight your body. They left two hours. They will kill you. Fuck you old man. I don't fucking know at all. Coughlin would be punched once more in the face while trying to interview a fan on his way out. Billy Martin manager the Rangers said it's the closest I've ever seen anybody come to getting killed in more than my 25 years in baseball. Sixty thousand beers were consumed. Oh my God. At ten cents each there were 19 streakers seven emergency room injuries and nine arrests. They only arrested nine people because they just want to clear it out. Nine. One of those guys like really me. Me. Me. Me. Wait how many of us got arrested. Nine. What do you mean nine. What do you mean nine. Well we can't arrest 20,000 people. Yeah but what the fuck. I just punched a guy. I know we know people got stabbed. All I did was hit a guy with a chair. All I did was punch a pregnant lady. To this day some Rangers say if the Indians had not come out and joined it would have been a real tragedy. The Indians coach was shaken. This is not just baseball. It's the society we live in. Nobody seems to care about anything. We complained about their people in Arlington last week when they threw beer on us and taunted us into a fight. But look at our people. They were worse. I don't know what it was and I don't know who's to blame but I'm scared. I mean is Chief Wahoo on record. What did he do. We have the Chief umpire. Chief umpire. Fucking animals. Fucking animals. He can't just pull back a pack of animals. When uncontrolled beasts are out there you got to do something. I saw two guys with knives and I got hit with a chair. If the fucking war is on tomorrow I'm going to join the other side and get a shot at them. He actually said that. If the fucking wars. So like these guys are all in PTSD and shit. All of a sudden all the Indians took on the look of Asian people. You just got to get to the base boss. Get Charlie out of the stands. What's that sir? Nothing. Nothing. Sorry. Um the Indians players escorted the Texas players to their bus without incident so that was nice. It sounds like these teams probably got brought a lot closer together. Jackie York and Carl Fazio were the Indians promotional team responsible for the event. The next morning they were called into Indians management partner Ted Banda's office. So he's basically the owner. I smell a promotion. They were sure they would be fired. He told them he had booked them both flights to Milwaukee where they would be having their Tencent beer night in a couple of days. He said go find out how they do it. They did. They did. All at all. At all future promotions offering Tencent beer. Three more were planned. Fans would be restricted to four cups a piece per night. No exceptions. Wait. Per night or per night? Per night. Okay. But how do you even keep track? You can't! Right? There's so many fucking stuff. They just don't see that it's a flawed concept. No. This is my favorite. The guy who had his hat stolen. Yeah. The outfielder. Burroughs asked one reporter whether the forefoot would erase his over three night at the plate. When informed that when he was informed that it would not he was upset. Little petty thing. Years later Billy Martin was killed in a low speed single vehicle collision during an ice storm at the end of his driveway in Birmingham, New York on Christmas Day 1989. He was drunk. Terry Yurcak. He was drunk when he got hit? No. Billy Martin was in his car and drove it into something at the end of his driveway and killed himself. Terry Yurcak, the kid who grabbed Burroughs hat, grew up and became citizen of the year in 2000 in Richmond Heights, a suburb outside of Cleveland. Clearly they did not vet their citizen of the year. The missing bases were never found. Shocker. Hey, I was at a Tencent beer night last night. I got shitfaced. I just want to give you guys back your bases. I don't even know why I took them. That is one of those things when you get drunk. I'll just take them. Okay, so there's three families out there in Cleveland who are passing down the bases. Right? It's got to be a huge thing. Yeah. Right? Yes. I mean, if my dad had one of those bases, it would be fucking amazing. You know, Dave, don't tell anybody about this. My dad never did anything good when he was drunk. But we have to think what would have happened if Carrie A. Nation had gotten her way. I believe she stormed the field in the first inning, right? Showed her tits. Yeah, if Carrie was there, holy shit. So you've heard that story, but you never heard that story. I heard that there was a terrible Tencent beer night in Cleveland. I didn't realize that it was so dangerous. No, it was like the Warriors. It was like a fucking movie where a bunch of guys were trying to survive. If you could go to that game, knowing everything, would you go? Yeah, I'd sit way up top. There's 25,000 fans. The stadium holds like 50. I'd sit way up fucking top and just sip on a beer. I would get six beers. I would just line them up and I would just slowly sip on them. Six per purchase. Yeah. Whoa, you excited yourself. Yeah, come on in, bud. How's it going? Good. My son's here, so we're wrapping up. Hi, Gary. No. Nicely done, my friend. No, no, the next generation. Oh, no. Oh, boy. All right, that was the dollop. The dollop ended with a bang. Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollop Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv, August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there or join me the next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas. If that doesn't work for you, join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston. I'll be at the Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night...