 Cut Noises God you want to look at a dude? I do one butt hole People say this is funny? Not Gary Gera It's Dave, ok Someone or something is tickling people Is it for fun? And this is not going to become the Tickling Podcast Ok You are Queen Faky of Made Up Town All hail Queen Shit of Liesville A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle And do what? Pray The last podcast ended well. For you. It was great for you. We cemented- For the whole Anthony family, really. Well, for you too. I mean, we solidified your identity. No. See, we haven't solidified my fucking identity. My name is- No, don't even open your mouth. My name is Gareth, and I admit that last week is tough to come back from because we now are talking generations. Yeah. And I'm not going to change those things. There's a legacy now. Hi, Gary. Just the little angelic voice. I heard- Not what I heard. You can't deny that boy- A satanic shrill is what I heard. You can't deny that boy is reality. He's not a make-a-wish kid. It's my goddamn name. My boy is always a make-a-wish kid. That is a horrible attitude. 24-7. No. Do you mind if he skips in front of you? He's a make-a-wish kid all the time in our heads. What do you mean by that? Is he sick? No. He's fine. He's perfectly, actually extremely healthy, but if we could just maybe ride in the front of the roller coaster, he really wants that. We're always just making wishes for him. We grant every wish. That's why we call him a make-a-wish kid. Some call it spoiling. We call it a make-a-wish kid 24-7. Can he drive your car? Absolutely. Of course he's allowed to drive my car. Beautiful. What year were you born? 79. Okay. So the 70s were- Crazy time. I mean, I was doing so much coke. Yeah. Yeah. Nuts. Well, your mom was. Right. Sorry. That's when doctors recommended that mothers use cocaine. Just a little bit of coke. Keep the baby up. It grows better. You know what fetuses need? A little bump. A little bump. You know, honestly, if you're looking to diet, the baby should be dieting too. So just gum a little, snort a little and don't eat. Double bump. Snack. I'm saying snack. And dance. Snack and dance. Snack and dance. That's all we're talking about. It's the 70s dance. So what was big in the 70s was daredevils. Right. Okay. It was the age of daredevils. So I grew up. So I was in it. I was focused on these guys. It was the shit. Right. Watching men jumping over things in cars and motorcycles. Yeah. So Evel Knievel and- Yeah, Evel Knievel was obviously the biggest one. Right. So this podcast is called The Two Daredevils. Oh yeah. Okay. This episode of The Dollop because we're going to talk about Evel Knievel and then another daredevil. Normal Knievel. Whose name you don't know. Have you ever heard of Ken Carter? No. Well, that's so weird. You haven't. But I've never heard of the Rube either. I like my chances. So there's really no set definition of a daredevil. They're just people who put their life on the line. Right. Usually just totally reckless. And they have capes. Just for money and fame. And a lot of them wear capes. Yeah. Not all of them, but a lot of them. The good ones. Ken Carter did. Oh boy. Evel did. So that's what they do. It's the one I've discovered in going over this. It's the one thing I think that's sadder than being a comedian. Oh my God. That hurts. My heart. My heart hurts. Because you're out on the road. You're breaking bones. Yeah. At least when you bomb, you get to just sleep normally. Yeah. You could just bomb. Every single time these guys do something, they go, oh, fuck. It doesn't matter if it went well or poorly. Everyone is, oh, my back. Fuck me. That's everything they do. That sounds really good. A French gentleman was considered, I guess, the first daredevil. He was the first guy to do the parachute jump. So he kind of invented parachutes. If you invented a parachute, you kind of have to be a daredevil, right? Yeah. I mean, yeah. The first guy to do it is a daredevil because he's like, fuck, I hope this works. Yeah. I hope this works. But he first tried, I mean, he did it first from a lower distance, but then he went up to a higher distance and he would strap animals on and push them off. So more of a dick. Yeah. But see, that feels like the French sense of humor to me. That feels like what the French would do. Hey, check out the doggy. You touch a squirrel to yourself and then you are two daredevils. Jump, leap, swing a parachute. We're going to put the marmots on your back. How about they have stare? Here, how's this guinea pig, pig of Guinea? Oh, he go fly. Radial for the animals too. They're like, just leave me alone. Can I just sit on the ground and eat grass? That's actually, I'm supposed to be on the ground eating grass. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. You fly. The next big daredevil thing, which was a big, big, big thing were the tightrope walkers. Oh, right. Okay. So that was a huge deal in like the 1800s, 1700s. The great blondine was known for tightrope walking. He walked across Niagara Falls. And then the great Farini kept one upping him. So the great blondine would walk across, walk across, just straight across. And then the great Farini would walk across, stop in the middle, slide down a rope, take a break on a boat by sipping champagne. And then he climbed back up the rope and finished the tightrope walk. What a fucking asshole. Hey, fuck you blondine. Hey, that's beats just walking. I took a break. I would like to, if there was like, he changed it from the great to the amazing just to sort of be like, yeah, double fuck you. Oh, he should have, right? Yeah. Double fuck you. I'm the incredible. I'm the amazing. I'm the most fantastic. I've never been better. Double fantastic. Hello. Come here, you bastard. So they went back and forth with each other's stunts. Like blondine would do a headstand and then Farini would do a handstand. It was just all fucking, basically Farini was a dick. Talk about rooting for a death. I mean, if you're the other guy, you're like, just drop. Cocky motherfucker. Fall motherfucker. Blondine brought a stove out onto the wire and cooked an omelet. Okay. I mean, what the fuck? That's what? Yeah. He brought a stove out. What do you mean a stove? He walked and he slid a stove and then he cooked an omelet and he ate the omelet and then he kept walking. What did he do with the oven? Did he drop the oven? I don't know. He's a fucking daredevil who gives a shit. He made a fucking omelet. I can't. I mean, I just can't wrap my mind around this part. Hey, cool. How's everyone liking their omelets? Fuck you, blondini. Farini lugged out a wash tub and scrubbed handkerchiefs. So he went out and did the wash. Way weaker. A little bit less than an omelet. In 1901, a 63 year old retired teacher named Annie Taylor became the first person to go over Niagara Falls in a barrel. Right. And live. She became super famous. And then there would be that thing where they'd go out on tour and they'd sit in a barrel on stage and they'd recreate it like that stupid. Yeah. Like everybody was dumb. I mean, just see. It's like you think reenactments on TV shows are shitty. Yeah. You have to go to what? And then we were in the barrel. And then I rolled like this. She brought her cat too. In the barrel? Yeah. What's with the obsession of putting the animals? This was a suicide run, right? Yeah. I mean, you don't bring your cat into a fucking daredevil. You're killing yourself. And the cat. For sure a cat. The cat could never have been more adjusted ever again. Oh no, the cat forever was just out of its fucking mind. Yeah. It's like, it just doesn't come off the roof now. Come on, it's time to eat. What are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing? I don't trust you, you bitch. What are we doing? Which all came out as meow. Meow, meow, meow, meow, meow. Next came the barnstormers, which came after World War I. All right. And so barnstormers were the dudes who, wing walkers, barnstormers were the guys who flew low into shit. Right, right, right. And then the wing walkers came and those were the dudes who walked out on the wing and did that shit. Hilariously, that happened by accident because there was a guy in the army or air force who was flying and his radiator broke and in mid-flight he climbed out to fix it. And everyone was like, look at him go. All the guys and his, what was it called? Platoon. Platoon. I don't know what you call the flying boys. But they were all like, yay. So his major or whatever was like, I want you to climb out of the wings all the time to boost morale. So he would do it all the time. So he'd do it all the time and then he got out and then he started. But the thing is so many wing walkers died. Like it was like, it is terrifying. They would like hang from ladders and that kind of shit. And then they would just, if you're hanging from a ladder from your teeth and an airplane, I would say your career is going to go about a year maybe max, like a year max. Well, you really, I mean, everything has to go your way. A wing ladder with your teeth. The only thing holding you, it's really, there's no margin. No. What if you sneeze? Sneeze. A bird. A bird. A drop of rain. Anything. A minor movement. Turbulence. Is there anything like that up there? Yeah, whatever. Splat. How many people went to go watch Wing Walkers and just ended with a body hitting the ground? And how many of those people were like, honestly, that was pretty cool. Can I get my money back though? So, um, hey, it was a good show and everything, but the guy died and I want my money back. Hey, just because my kid saw that, is there any way to maybe get like half my money back? He's pretty traumatized. He's pretty tore up about it. No, so this would make WishKid, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. He gets everything. So they made it illegal in 1936 because so many people were dying. Wow. Because you can imagine training for it. Yeah. A lot of guys just didn't get out of training. And the idea that it was so popular, it had to be illegal. Yeah. Uh, 40s, 50s came and that's when stunt cars came. Okay. So that's when we kind of get into the modern day stunt man. Right. Right. Joey Chitwood Thrill Show was the big popular one. Oh, sure. In 1967, it was featured on the Wide World of Sports. All right. Uh, in 1978, Joey Chitwood Jr. set a world record when he drove a Chevy Chevrolet 5.6 miles on two wheels. Oh, okay. That's some hooper. Sidey. That's funny. Yeah, that's awesome. That is crazy. That's a Smokey the Bandit Burt Reynolds shit right there. Yeah. And that's five and a half miles, five and a half miles. Fucking insane. Yeah. And he probably had to stop because I mean, people were probably like, oh, goodbye. Follow him. He's got pretty fat. Yeah. How long does this go on for? Can't see him anymore. He's log gone. Most importantly, Chitwood Show was seen by a young evil Knievel in Butte, Montana in 1946. His name was Bobby at that time. Lil Knievel. His name is Bobby Knievel. Okay. When he was 18, he was arrested for reckless driving on his motorcycle. All right. And in jail, there was another prisoner, which the cops arrested all the time for being drunk. And his name is Knofle, and they nicknamed him Awful Knofle. Okay. That's crazy. And so then they said, we need a nickname for this other punk. And so they nicknamed Bobby Evil. Evil Knievel. Evil Knievel's name is because he was in a jail cell with a guy named Awful. Awful Knofle? Awful Knofle. And then they named him Evil because of Evil Knievel. They were rhyming. They were killing time rhyming back then in jail. All right, man. We got five years in here. That's a lot of time to rhyme. Oh shit. I already started. So that's it. It's the best beginning of a name ever. So he liked it and he kept it. Even though he wasn't a stuntman yet. Up in Canada, there was a guy named Ken Carter. I've heard about him. You have heard about him. Yeah. He was the exact exact same age as Evil Knievel. He was born poor in Montreal, which I didn't know they had poor people there. He dropped out of high school because he saw a Chitwood show. And at 16, he joined Joey Chitwood's Congress of Canadian Daredevils. Wow. Yeah. Congress. Yeah, it was a whole Congress. You guys want to vote on this job? Yeah, we'll vote. We'll try to actually vote on shit. We're a Congress. You go down and see the Congress. You know what? I went down there to see them. I thought they're gonna be jumps. It just said they just legislated for like six hours. It was awful. They're gonna fix potholes, I guess. I don't know. It's just like I don't give a shit. They made a motion to invade Greenland, which I thought was weird. They're on a recess. So I don't know. I don't know what's going on. I don't know. I come back at four. So Ken Carter rode a motorcycle through fire, stuff like that. Three weeks into joining, he broke his leg. And he was replaced. Oh, jeez. That's the fucking rough life of a daredevil. You're in or you're out. It's not like you can ride around with a broken leg. They gotta have a guy. I bet they try, too. Yeah, I'm sure they try. Fine. I'll be all right. I'll be all right. It smarts a little bit. It hurts a little when I move it. Sure. Okay, it's hanging. They cut it off. Let me ride. But he knew at that point that he was going to be a daredevil. So he's a high school dropout daredevil guy. Right. I bet your parents love to hear that. You're dropping out to be a daredevil. Oh my God. Worse than a comedian. You're right. And all you do is go, I shouldn't have taken that Joey Chitwood shit. Or I should have pulled out. I should have pulled out. This is not going to be good. Evil Knievel had a family and he opened up a Honda dealership in Washington State. So he's not a daredevil. Come on down to Evil's Honda. Honda of Evil. No, it'll be fine. I'll give you a good deal. Get the best deals from Evil. If you sign this contract, we don't need to worry about financing. So it wasn't doing well, so he decided to stage a motorcycle show for his PR. Amazing. For his dealership, his first professional jump was at the dealership over 20 feet. He jumped over a box of rattlesnake and two mountain lions. And what the deal was is he was going to jump over the rattlesnakes and then drive by the mountain like between the two mountain lions. It's fucking awesome. It's insane. It's already the best thing going. It's great. But I mean, again, think of how much could go wrong. I know. What if you went into the mountain lion? Or what if the lions are just like, fuck it, we're going to attack people. It's not good for Honda business. Come on down to lion attack Honda. He came up short and landed on the rattlesnake to the delight of the audience. Everyone was like, yeah. Die. Die. But he was like, I'm on to something. People were, there were so many people, people were so into it that he was like, fuck the dealership. I'm going to be jump shit. So he was off and running. That was in 1965. In 1965, Ken Carter had been added a while. Okay. Right. He had been with the International Hell Drivers. Sure. Yeah. Later, he was with the All American Daredevils. What they would do is they would T-bone into cars, they would smash cars into brick walls. They would ride cars on top of other cars. And of course they would do car jumps, jumping over other cars. Yeah. That's really crazy. No, it sounds fucking insane. You want to do a T-bone tonight? What's that? That's just where I'm going to drive into you. For this next stunt, I'm going to drive at 60 miles per hour into this wall. That's it. That doesn't seem like a stunt. That's the stunt. I hope I live. How much did you make tonight? Like 80 bucks is a good amount. After tipping people out, I made nine bucks, but it's cool. Oh, look. Some of my bones are sticking out. That's fun. Listen to me. I sound like a maraca when I shake my egg. You hear that? So after he mastered the car jump, he started his own touring company. I guess that's the thing that everyone wants to see is the main guy is going to jump a bunch of cars. Right. The headliner. So Ken Carter's suicide auto jump started right. He's the opposite of Evil Knievel right there because Evil Knievel's like, I'm going to jump rattlesnakes and go past a couple of mountain lions. This guy's like, I'm going to die. Well, I'm dying. I don't know what the other guy's promising, but this is it probably. Hey kids, you want to go see a suicide show? Come on, guys. Let's go watch a grown man die. Come on. We're going to go downtown and watch a man die tonight. It's eight bucks. You guys get in for four. He's going to die in a car. It'll be fun. And it's going to be like two hours before he dies. It's just fun. Just stuff running into stuff. You know guys are just going to drive into walls and then he'll die around 830. Oh God. So the two guys obviously had different approaches to the whole thing. Carter did pretty well. He started getting a name. He became a star of the world of jumping shit. Which is all you can really become. You're just out on the road going to little towns jumping shit. There's nothing else that comes out of it because all you're doing is going to a fair or a stadium and you jump over 10 cars and everyone goes, woo. And then there's no point where someone goes, you want to be in a movie? No, you're just slinging dick jokes. So his show is so popular that in 1967 he did a performance at a slip Speedway in New York and that was broadcast on ABC's Wide World of Sports. Now that was like 20, 30 million people on Sunday. Like Wide World of Sports was, I can still remember their little promo thing. It's just shit crashing. I remember there's a skier going down a hill and he flies off and like is doing somersaults over a building. Like it's just like, this is going to be fucking nuts. The Wide World of Sports is like bloopers. Yeah, kind of. But live. Yeah. Horrible live bloopers. Or is there known as- Make that show now, I'm in. Or is there known as terrible accidents? Horrible tragedies. ABC's Wide World of Terrible Accidents. Welcome to the world of horrible tragedy. So at that point he was jumping 8, 10 cars. He was jumping cement trucks and chuck wagons. I love that he was jumping chuck wagons. Yeah, that's funny. Why not? He put in about 50,000 miles a year. Wow. Yeah. Worse than a stand up. So he's a road dog, yeah. Road dog. Heared everything. He broke everything. Broke his ankles, kneecaps, smashed chest. Like he broke his legs, broke his arms. He broke everything. Everything is always broken. Right. That's fun. So Evil decided to start his own group and he went at it from a different angle. He got someone to back him. Already, Evil's got a way better plan. And he got other riders who would do shit so he could just concentrate on the jumping. Right. Okay. So the debut of Evil Knievel and his Daredevils was January 3rd, 1966 in Indio, California. Okay. So it's kind of out near where Coachella is. Right. So yeah, kind of the bumble fucks. Huge success. People loved it. Guys on motorcycles jumping around. He went to other towns on his third show. Okay, so a motorcycle is coming at him and he's standing there and then he's going to jump over it. You know, spread his legs and jump over it. Now it didn't- Timing. It didn't. Yeah, the timing was off. So what happened was- Not what I want to hear. So what happened was the dude ran straight into Evil's nuts. No. Fucking way. No. And he went flying like 15 feet. What? From a nut shot. What? No. Yeah. Yeah. And then- Can you imagine the tummy ache? And then after? He was in the hospital for like two or three weeks. He broke his balls. With just ruined balls. His medically speaking, Evil's ruined his balls. Did you see the doctor coming in, lifting up the sheet? Well, I see here that your balls are ruined. Well, let's see. Okay. What I'm going to recommend we do here is a ball stastity, which is where we redo your balls because they are gone. I mean- See what happened, Evil, was a motorbike drove into your balls. Full acceleration. Full acceleration right into your nuts. And as you can see here, your balls look like a couple of smushed raisins. I mean, they are- It's terrifying. It's awful. I'm upset. I've been barfing all morning thinking about it. I'm a doctor. I didn't want to come to work today. I'm quitting. I just gave my two weeks. I'm out of here. I'm done. Yeah, we have to do that too. Yeah, it's very corporate. I'd rather clean bathrooms than look at your nuts. Yeah. I'm actually going to be a daredevil. Feels cool. Feels like a good idea. Feels like the time's right. Take it off. So Elvis then killed the Tory company. Okay. He got hit in the nuts. He's like, fuck you. Evil killed it. Yeah. Because he was clearly like the- you can tell in there that he was like, you went too fast at the wrong time. Yeah. Something where he was like, you fucking idiots. Dummy. Hit me in the nuts. You hit my balls. Stupid. I made sure. Sure. I did make up the plan to jump over you with my balls. Yeah. Maybe half of the timing's on me, but still. Okay. So at this point, most guys were jumping like water and animals. Like they jump a pool or they jump on motorcycles. That was like the thing. Okay. Evil decided to jump cars instead, which set him apart from the other motorcycle guys. And that went on for a while until the best thing that ever happened to him happened. He was in Missoula and he tried to jump 12 cars and a van. And a spicy end. And a van. He missed the van. Oh shit. He hit the van. He broke his arms, a bunch of ribs, and people were like, that was awesome. Because he was on a motorcycle and people loved the idea of a guy on a motorcycle crashing to his shit and then rolling around in pain. People love train wrecks. So he got national press from fucking up. From crashing. Thank God we used that van. So he was in the hospital for a while. This is the same doctor. The same doctor. Jesus Christ. Listen. How are you nuts? Can we see your nuts? I just am so curious how they're doing. Because they were ruined. Oh, they're good. Oh, oh, oh. Okay, so then. Wait, can I see your ID? Huh? I'm a janitor. I'm a janitor here. So then he went back at it, jumping more and more cars and missing a lot. So is he throwing? He's throwing, is he diving a little bit? No, he's just, he just. He's just trying to do the impossible. They always have to jump more than they last jumped. Like there's no like, I jumped eight cars, I'm going to jump eight cars again. No one wants to do that. If you jump eight cars, then they want to see you jump nine cars. So everyone is always. Yeah, but it's like a stand up bit. Like he can do it a few times. He can work half a year. Oh, you know, get the eight good. Eight cars. Yeah, get your eight good. Then move to ten. I'm sure you could, but as a daredevil, your whole billing is he's doing more. Yeah. Like none of it's like, there's a daredevil coming. World record. He's doing the same shit. It's putting the stove on the tightrope and making an eye. Well, we'll get to his stove later. What? So, so he, he jumping more, he's missing. He's got concussions, broke his left wrist, his right knee, he broke two ribs. And then he was invited on the Joey Bishop show. So now he's literally the guy that everyone's like excited about. Yeah. Okay. On the Joey Bishop show. Not a huge show. It's not the tonight show, but it's. It's, it's, what is it? Like a, just a. It's like a talk show. It's a talk show. And that's, so that's 1968. So at this point, Ken Carter's kind of ahead of him still. Cause Ken Carter's got his big road show. Everyone kind of knows who he is. He's done the ABC worldwide of wide world of sports. So he's got millions of viewers. He's out on the road. He's bringing in a lot of fans and a lot of money. And then this fucking asshole comes on a motorcycle and keeps crashing into shit. And he's like, what the fuck? He's not doing it right. He's crashing. So Evil Ken, he was tried 14 jumps this time and four of them have failed horribly. Jesus. Those are perfect odds to go. That's just enough to get me in the goddamn door. Why stop? I'll get in there for that percentage. What can go wrong? But Carter's just doing the same thing. He's just jumping cars in a car or vans or whatever. He's just jumping in a car. A motorcycle is more spectacular. Way less. Yeah. From a viewer's standpoint, a guy on a motorcycle doing it is crazy awesome. Well, you gotta wait for them to pull the body out of the car to see the damage. The motorcycle, you can be like, oh, his legs in the wrong way. Wait, his head shouldn't be on his back, right? Oh no, his head's bleeding so much. So Evil is in 1967. He's in Las Vegas for a wedding and he sees Caesar's fountains. Okay. The Caesar Palace fountains and he's like, that's it. I'm going to jump that shit. So he's like the first guy to take it out of arenas and go, I'm going to fucking jump something that's just outside in the real world. So this is something that no one had done. So he made a deal with the casino and then he tried to get ABC to air the event on the Wide World of Sports, but ABC was like, no, that's completely insane. And you're probably going to die. What they did say was if you film it and it's great, we'll put it on the air. So it's not going to be live. And he was like, man, this shit's going to be tight. I think he used the word tight. Really? He was talking like that. I think so. Yeah, I think back then. Wow. So he had to pay for it all out of his own pocket. He got director John Derek to film it. John Derek's wife, Linda Evans, was running one of the cameras, was running one of the cameras. That sounds good. He went into the casino on the morning of the jump. He dropped his last hundred bucks on roulette, lost immediately. That's got to be a good feeling. That right. All right. I'm cold. Who's a winner today? Not me. All right. Not my lucky day. Gonna go jump the fountain. Then he went over to the bar and had a shot of wild turkey. Smart. You know, take a shot, get yourself nice and heated. That's always the best thing you should do before a motorcycle jump. Absolutely. Get a little buzz. You definitely want to be loose. Get a little buzz. How great would it have been to be the bartender though? Yeah. You're like, aren't you jumping the fountain? Are you jumping? I think I'm going to cut you off at one. Another one. I'm a daredevil. Yeah, well, idiot devil I think is the word. Give it to me. And then before it, he's hammered like, well, I'm pretty fucking drunk. Gonna jump a fountain. I threw up in the fountain. I'm jumping at a distance of 151 feet. It was the longest jump. So he'd never tried to jump as far as the longest jump he's ever attempted. More than 15,000 people were there watching live. Knievel cleared the fountains, but landed on the safety ramp, which was supported by a van. So I'm already thinking it's a little rinky dinky operate. Yeah. This is when daredevils were like, now we'll put a van at the end. What was it called? The safety or security? The safety ramp. Okay. Because it doesn't sound like the safety ramp because he got hurt on it. Yeah. Well, if you see the video, he lands on it kind of over the side of it. And then as soon as he hits it, he loses his grip on the handlebars and it's over at that point. So he tumbles over the handlebars and he rolls. It looks like it's not a person. It looks like it's a stuffed dummy or like a mannequin just rolling around and he just rolls and rolls and rolls and then finally stops in the Dunes parking lot, which is the next casino. You're trespassing sir. You either come in and gamble, you get the fuck out of here. Now listen, we can make a deal where maybe you jump over the Dunes parking lot. We can put up a dune or something. We can put a slip and slide in here. He had a crushed pelvis, a crushed femur, fractured fractures to his hip, wrist, both ankles and a concussion. He was in the hospital for a month and in a coma for 29 days. Oh my God. And people loved it. We're monsters. Everyone was like, yeah, that guy, he was terrible at something. Man, did he fuck up. A 29 day coma. A 29 day coma. And people are like, yeah. He finally wakes up and everyone's like, wow. You did it. I've been waiting to shake your not usable hand for a while. I'd love to walk a mile in your shoes with horrible pain, with horrible ankle pain. So ABC. Oh my God. Bought it. Yeah. They bought it. They were like, well, we got to get now that this has happened, it was a huge thing. We didn't know it was going to be a coma. And we regret. How do we know it would be a complete fuck up? We would have bought this and we thought he would maybe break his wrist. We didn't realize the word crushed would be used so much when it came to bone. Nobody said he was going to break everything. We would have paid for it. So he made so much more money than he otherwise would have made. Right. He just ended up paying out of the asshole. Doctors are saying he'd probably never walk again, but he did. Horrible doctors. A star. You'll never walk again. Or maybe. He couldn't get health insurance after that. Why? Nobody wanted to give him a policy? You know who could get health insurance? Who? Ken Carter. Canadian. Yeah. Canadian Ken. Advantage Carter. But now Carter is like the outside guy looking in. Now Knievel is the big star. He hasn't done his coma stunt yet. Thank you. Find a way to get yourself into a coma. And evil is now the number one daredevil in the world. Like everyone, every kid at this point, we all had the evil Knievel on a little motorcycle that you would, it was attached to a battery and you were like a giant battery and you would hook it up and charge it and then hit a button and would go sailing and crash into shit like he did. Now with hospital bed. Now with hospital gown and an IV bag. Now with shattering torso. When you hit the button, he screams fail and he spashes into anything you want. That's right. Invite your friends over, play the game and then take 29 days off while evil recovers. Evil recovers a intensive care unit. So evil kept jumping. He crashed his next three jumps. Oh good. So that's pretty good. Great. Breaking stuff, you know, all the way. But the best thing happened in 1970. Now this is my favorite evil Knievel story ever. So he is a motorcyclist, buddy. He hates the hell's angels. Okay. I like the dark bad element of motorcycles and their evil and the hell's angels and other groups. A lot of them were Vietnam vets who just came out of the war, but there are the ones who didn't want to go back in a society or couldn't adjust back to society. So they started, right. They started getting motorcycle gangs. And so this is when they were really flourishing in the early seventies and late sixties. So he was, he would talk shit about them all the time. Not smart. So he went to the cow palace in San Francisco. Now cow house is a giant place where I used to go see metal shows and stuff. But it's called the cow palace because back in the day it was built for like farm shows. Okay. Sure. Moo. Are you cows ready to moo? I said, are you ready to moo? Fuck yeah you are. Hit it. So he would always come out to address the cow before the crowd. Not the cows. He would just come out to address the cows. Before the cow. Before the jump. He gives usual America's the greatest place on earth. If people don't know he had a white uniform with like an X that was blue and white stars and red lines. It's all patriotic. It's all very American flag wrapped around him. These colors don't run, but God damn does my blood. After a crash. Fuck me do they break. Oh God do they break. But God damn well they get crushed and shattered. They'll shatter every time. But I gotta make money and I gotta make a living now because the dealership's gone. USA! So he gives a speech, the whole crowd's fired up and then at the end he comments about there being a quote unquote bad element in the motorcycle world today and starts referring to some outlaw bikers who are really screwing things up. Turns out there are a bunch of Hell's Angels in the audience because this is where they wanted to fuck him up. Oh cool that's cool. So evil heads outside in the parking lot where he's gonna start his run before he makes the jump. Oh this is pre-jump? Yeah. As he comes right through the door to the cow palace a Hell's Angel steps forward and throws a beer bottle at him. Oh my God. Misses him because I assume that he's drunk and also he's a Hell's Angel. How good at throwing are they? Yeah well, Jesus. Evil hits the jump perfectly, smooth landing and then he does his standard traditional thing where he sits on the motorcycle and puts both his arms up and drives around without touching the handlebars and he goes over close to Hell's Angel and while the motorcycle is still moving he steps off in one motion and punches the Hell's Angel in the face. Evil hits the Hell's Angel. Yes! It's the greatest thing ever. Without stopping the motorcycle he gets off of it and just hammers a dude right in his god damn biker face. Holy shit. It's the best thing ever. That's awesome. So then. It's no coma. Look. It's no coma. But I read a blog of some guy who was there he was just like, it was fucking awesome. You know I didn't realize I was walking into the peak of my life but I was. So like he's a god. That's a god. That's odd. God does it. That's like Zeus and then Evil Knievel and then some other guys. Apollo or whatever. Poseidon or some shit. And he apparently hit him with a haymaker like he came from under and just wham. What a winner. Oh just so good. I'm winning. So then all the Hells Angels piled on Evil Knievel and then the crowd went insane. Ten set beer night. Insane. They all came out. They all came out of stands and piled on the Hells Angels. Every Hells Angel in the place was attacked. One biker was down on the floor swinging like a two by four around and the crowd would like back off every time he swung it. Then they come forward. Then they back off. And then at some point they all just jumped in and just beat him unconscious. What a show. Eventually the crowd beat up every single Hells Angel. They were unconscious all over the place and then they just stopped. They were like OK we're done. And then the security came in and then ambulances had to come in and take all the Hells Angels to the hospital because they were all fucked up. Ambulances for Hells Angels is kind of funny. Anti-Altamont. So that's the greatest thing that he ever did. Yeah. Well that's quite a night. That's a fucking awesome night. So while he was jumping motorcycles and fighting villains, Ken Carter. Poor Kenny. So Ken's out there. I keep forgetting about Ken. I know right. Kicking rocks down a dirt road like stupid evil, good for nothing. Never done nothing for nobody. Jackass motorcycle loser. Hells Angels. We got it right. I do in a car. You think that's easy? It's easy. So he's. Learning how to ride a motorcycle. He's in the Guinness Book of World Records. OK. For jumping the most cars in a car. Sure. So that's cool. It's cute. But evil had flair. Evil had the outfits. Evil punched a Hells Angel mid-ride. Yeah. The Cognis. He's punching Hells Angels. And he was selling toys by the fucking truckload. Every single boy in America had an evil Knievel toy. OK. It's mandatory, if not the outfit and everything else. Right. That's when you start to get a little worried. But Carter. Ken Carter dressed like a dude who was going to Walmart for the day. Like there was no. Spicy. Spicy look. There was no flair. He had like a big like black curly hair that was like not like just kind of out of place. Look like he'd been a windstorm. Oh cool. So there's nothing like about him. You're like, that's the guy and all he was trying to do now was to jump 16 cars because he jumped 15. So he's out there for years while evil's punching Hells Angels and crashing everywhere and getting like people like throwing up a fountain. Jesus Christ motherfucker. But the other thing is evil's already jumped 19 cars because he can do it on a motor cycle easier and a car can't jump as many. So the Ken Carter is so fucking behind the eight ball that he's just fucked. It's people like who gives a shit what you do in your fucking car. You know what's funny is that he also doesn't like to be called a daredevil. OK. Some of these guys like to be referred to as explorers. Explorers. They consider themselves more like Columbus. What? Well they're not right. Well I'll give you a quote from Kenny Carter. It's going to be wrong. When Columbus said he said the world was round they locked him up in jail. So that's kind of the you get the. Yeah. But did they lock him up in jail. I don't know. And I don't think Columbus said the world was round. I don't think Columbus was the one who said the world was round. So look I mean the point I'm making is Kenny's not that smart. He's way off. You know they locked Columbus in jail when he said the world was round. Well no they didn't. No he didn't say that. And what? Look I'm just trying to show you how not great Ken Carter was. It sounds like history got pushed pretty. History got crushed like his bones a little bit. Yeah a little bit. The old head took a few hits. On the Internet now you can find every single one of evil's jumps how far it went whether or not it was successful. There's charts there's graphs. You cannot do anything with Carter. Yeah. You cannot find anything about Ken Carter. All you can find out about Carter is two jumps and I'll get to one in a second. But it was created. The next jump. Ken Carter's big jump came about because of what evil did next. He tried to jump the Snake River. Remember that? Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. So first evil. How big is the Snake River? I don't know. It's not. He did it in a skinnier part. First he wanted to jump the Grand Canyon which is huge. And the government was like. We can't believe we have to step in but no. Legally you can't do it. Yeah. We don't want you to do that. They're like here ask me again. Can I please jump the Grand Canyon on my motorbike? No. Okay. Sound good. Nope. Okay. So he switched to the Snake River Canyon and in September 8 1974 he tried to jump the Snake River in what he called the Sky Cycle powered by a steam engine that was built by a former aero jet engineer. And it looked like a rocket. So basically he's on this thing that's pointing up like almost straight up and there's a motorcycle in there but you can't tell watching it. It's shaped like a big rocket. Right. Okay. It's shaped like one of those rockets you buy and then you light on 4th of July and it goes bang. It's huge though right? Yeah it's huge. Yeah. And it looks ridiculous. It looks like the Dr. Strangelove rocket. Yes. I remember seeing it as a kid I was totally disappointed because I was like I want to see him on a motorcycle but he's only going to ride a rocket. Fuck the rocket. You've been spoiled. Stupid rocket man. My make a wish is that it wasn't a rocket. So he jumped the parachute as it's called went off super early. Cool. Good. And he just drifted over to the north side of the canyon where he was going and then almost made it but then the wind blew and blew him back to the side he started on. It was all very sad. Very sad slow descent. Slow yeah. But he wasn't hurt. He was just like. Ow my ankle. Oh God. Oh I hurt my ankle when I landed. But all of a sudden Kenny Carter had an idea. It's Carter's time. He knew that he was getting older and his injuries were taking longer to heal and so he knew he needed one big jump to become the world's best daredevil. Explorer. Explorer devil. He decided he was going to jump one mile in a car across the St. Lawrence River. Wow. I mean. Okay. By decide. You mean. Fooled himself into thinking it was possible. He's a daredevil. He's going to do it. A mile. It's easy. A mile. There is a point. How does it how is it possible for him to go from 19 cars to a mile. There's a point where they show him on the ramp and they are interviewing him and they show all the way across the river and all you can think when you see that is there's no fucking way in hell. It's not possible. That can't ever. It's physics now. It's physics. You're being realistic now. I'm going to jump into another dimension. Yeah. Good for you. I'm going to drive my car off this flat earth. So you know evil always has like a big production. It's all this shit. Yeah. So his idea was he was going to jump from the Canadian side over to an island in New York and he's getting his citizenship on landing. He did say that. Who's a citizen now motherfucker. But he also is going to put a bed of roses so he would land in a bunch of rose bushes. Rose bushes. Well at a rose roses growing there. So when he landed there would be like look I'm in roses like a thorny roses. Well I mean he could have gotten small thorns. The thorns are the least of his fucking problems. He's not going to make it there. I'm just curious if the wind goes right. Is he going to get thorns in his car? The car is going to blow the blow by the wind. I'm just saying if it nudges if it nudges is he going to get cut up by thorns. I was cut up by thorns once in a rose bush. It's very painful. I just want to make sure Kenny's OK. Fair. Totally fair. So evil is a worldwide star. Kenny thinks this is going to get he's about to die. He says literally this is going to make me the number one daredevil in the world. This is the jump. This is going to make it a closed cap. So he's clearly jealous of evil, can evil and delusional and delusional. And now he's going way out of his element which is just jumping cars and stadiums and he's going to do this crazy jump. So he moves in and moves on his idea. He gets a big sports manager and they go to the networks and everyone's interested. They're all like I want to see a man die in a car. Everyone is like watching a man die in a car sounds like the best thing. We'd love to see it track Kenny. So ABC gave him a contract. Two hundred fifty thousand dollars. Fuck. Live on World Wide of Sports. Jesus Christ. Yeah. It's all happening. Evil. Evil. Evil. At around this time, evil did a jump at Wembley and crashed really bad. And after he crashed, he got up and grabbed the mic and said, I'm retired. OK, because he was like, I can't. I've got a lot of money and I keep rolling around after a car crash or a motorcycle crashes and it's not fun. I might die. I'm tired of hurting. So they said, I know, Webly. What? Yeah. Well, he was nice. What opened up for him? It just shows that he's worldwide. Yeah. Yeah. So. So Carter and his guys are creating a fourteen hundred foot runway with a ramp on the end and eighty five feet, eighty five feet high ramp, which I can't understand how that's going to get you a mile and I feel like a guy who didn't graduate from high school isn't maybe the guy to figure this out. Well, it all just sounds horrible. It's going to be great climbing eighty five feet. And then and then you and then you rock it off and you fly to the island and then you fly through the event horizon. Yeah. And then you land. I think I think probably little explosions are going on. Maybe a little bags here and there. Sure. It's all going to work out great. So the jump is. I see this going well and happy. No, it's going to go great. Cool. The job is scheduled for September 25th, 1976. They start building the ramp, but it keeps raining. ABC is getting worried. So they send Evil Knievel to the site to look it over for a tape segment of worldwide, wide world of sports. Oh, I must love that. Evil gets there. You see evil and he says, this looks dangerous. You have no elevation. You have no room for error. So that's the guy who breaks everything. But even he but he's saying that it's maybe possible. He's saying he's basically saying highly unlikely. He's saying highly unlikely. Hey, from evil to you, barely, barely, barely, barely any chance. And by the way, I hung out with God two years ago for 29 days. Evil had worked on the Snake River Jump for three months. They're trying to get the jump for Carter together in one month. Evil says, I don't think I'd attempt to try this stunt. I think it's much more dangerous than the Snake River Canyon stunt. This is a daredevil stunt that might end it all for all daredevil stunts. So that right there he's saying, this guy's probably going to die. And that's going to end daredevil stunts. Because then people are going to go like, oh, it's not about just getting broken. It's about someone actually dying. That does take the fun off of it. Sure. Like up until then, you're like, he lived. He was in a coma, but he lived. It's a matter of time until you're like, I feel bad. I feel weird. This one feels weird. Evil Knievel talking about the jump on Wide World of Sports was broadcast to 20 million people. So him just talking about him just talking about it. Now should I mention that Carter's never driven a rocket car? Wait, which he needs to drive for this. He's never driven over 90 miles an hour and the car has to hit speeds of 260 miles an hour. Wait. Okay. Okay. Go ahead. You have questions? Yeah. A lot of them. I mean, it kind of seems like your dad's trying it, right? Wait, so he how fast will he go in a rocket car potentially? 260. He will go to 60. Yeah, it's gonna hit 260. It's gotta go 85 feet up. Yeah. Up going 1400 foot ramp. What's your rate? Five feet up and then going 260 close your eyes. Close your eyes. Now picture it flying. Now, how does a car fly? Does a car fly? I'm not sure how cars fly. Oh, you don't know. I'm not used to the trajectory of flying cars, but I just see, I hear Evil's point. There's no room for error. So they set up a medical wing. Set up a medical wing in the middle of the river. He has never driven a rocket car and his car is not done being built yet. So they set up another guy's rocket car for him to train in and he shows up to the track Carter and he doesn't have his helmet or a suit. Who needs it when you're just gonna die on impact? And the car he's gonna test was built for someone else so he can barely squeeze into it. All good signs. He borrows a suit, doesn't wear a helmet, but he does it. He does what? He drives 260 miles an hour. Okay, right. This is one week before the jump. So it's happening, right? It's happening. It better fucking not be. It's all happening. It better fucking not happen. Four days before the jump, his car isn't ready and it's still raining where they're building the ramp. So it's not getting done. It turns out that Evil Kenneva went back to ABC and said, do not let this dude do this jump. He will die. And so ABC pulled out. Ken Carter must not be happy. So that's it. The 250,000 is gone. The jump is over. Ken Carter's dream is totally fucked. His dream of dying. Yeah. And Evil Kenneva in 1976, the next year does the shark jump. You remember the shark? Yeah. His last jump, he's supposed to jump a tank full of sharks that would be televised live. He's doing a rehearsal and during the rehearsal, he loses control of the motorcycle and crashing a cameraman. He broke his arms and the cameraman lost an eye. So that was it. He was done. So the cameramen don't need their eyes. I think cameramen just need one. They just look through the one hole, right? It's really easy. I mean, I don't know exactly how it works. I'm sure that guy had a great life after losing his eye. As I recall from watching films and stuff, when a cameraman looks into a camera, he closes one eye. No? Yep. Okay. So it's just, hopefully it was that one. Net positive. Hopefully. Oh God, you got to pray it's the right eye. You're not going to believe this, but that's the eye. The eye still has. The eye still has is the one I close. I'll do it on my head, doc. I'll film on my head if I have to. So evil's done. The only thing he did after that was he did some smaller jumps to help his son, Robbie, who then became a daredevil. Right. Robbie Knievel, right. I remember him. So it's 76 and now the door is open for Carter because there's no more big daredevil and Carter's like, I got to do this. I got to jump the St. Lawrence River. It's got to happen. No. He finds a new business manager and they get new backers. This time it's all Canadian backers. Oh God. Yeah. Shit is on Canadian style. The ramp's being built. It's on for September 25th, 1977, right? I hope not. Two weeks before they test the car. The rocket car. To make sure it goes 260. Right. Right. And it explodes. Oh, well, well, well. Huh. That's interesting. The rocket car blew up, huh? So they get a new gas tank made out of different materials. I'm sorry. They get a new gas tank. They get a new fuel tank. Sorry, not gas, rocket fuel tank, out of new material and they try that one and that one also explodes. So how are we feeling about the prospects? I think it's fine. They're a week out now. Right. Everything is going well. A week out, the cars are exploding. They get a new gas tank. So they get a third one. Oh, good. So it's all fine because that one also explodes. Okay. So there we go. So let's see. Three down. Three down. How are we feeling? How's the, what's the general morale of the project? I think the best thing to do on a jump like this is to rush it. Yeah. I always rush it. Rush job, rush job. Let's get her done. Let's get her done. There's no time to dot the I's. Let's move. I've got to, I've got a death to get to. So the guys who are building the tank just leave. Yeah. They don't, they don't tell anybody. They just up in the middle of the night go back home to like Florida. That's how you know you're in a good project when people are fleeing like slaves. When you walk in and the guy's building's over, just gone. That's always a good sign. Dear Ken. The jump is off. Oh. But. No. What? Give it a rest. It's back on for July. Fuck. He's got his own money now that he's thrown in. Now he's putting his own money in. No. He's got new backers. Who are these backers? They get a new car and a new fuel tank and it fucking works. Shit is on. No. Shit is on. No. The car's not blowing up. So far the car's cost 100,000 a build but it goes 250 miles an hour. It's all fucking good. Oh perfect. Kenny's expecting 100,000 people to show up. But the backers aren't sure they can handle a crowd that big. And then the backers want to do it without crowds. They just want to film it for TV and then sell it later without crowds. That upsets Kenny. They bring the car down to the ramp to test it. Now the ramp's built. And then they test it and the ramp's bumpy. It's like, which isn't what you want to hear. You want to hear it go. Yeah. When you're building it 85 feet high, 1400 feet long, it's going to be hard to make it airtight and perfect. It's quite a fucking distance. You're such a naysayer. Yeah, I really am naysaying this. But the guy who builds the ramp convinces Kenny that the bumps won't matter. Ken, the bumps are a good sign on a ramp like this. Man, when the car's going fast you ain't going to feel no bumps. Man, 260, you ain't feeling no bumps. You'll be fine. You'll be good. Kenny, you'll be fine. Close your eyes and think about someone hitting a bump at 260. Does that guy feel anything? He thinks you're making an omelet on a tightrope. There you go. So Kenny is still upset about the live crowd. Or as he says, he's a fucking daredevil. No, he's an explorer. He says, I'm jumping a mile on a rocket car. This should be on the front page. There should be people there. They should be pressed. So right before the jump, at the very last minute, day of the jump, he makes a new deal with some guys from Hollywood. Oh my God. The backers he has now take the car and the crew and they bail. So there's no jump. The jump is off again. This is quite a roller coaster. So the Hollywood guys come in. But wait, so he just switched horses just because he wanted a crowd. And then so it's off. And now these new Hollywood backers. Yeah, all he wanted was a crowd. He is a daredevil. He wants a lot of stuff. Well, he wants a crowd. He's very demanding. Supposed to be in front of people. Don't you take his fucking side. So the jump is pushed to September 26, 1979. His friend and fellow stuntman. So they have they have the cameras come out and then they want to film it like reality style. So they're like, here's him working out. Working out? Well, they put him in a kayak and they have his friend whose name is Kenny Powers. Oh my God. As a stuntman also telling him, use the paddles and then like pretending to train him to run and stuff like it's all made up. But sorry, this is training to hold a wheel. You know what? I'm just saying, I don't know how much training you need to fucking he should just be resting. He should be kayaking. He should be fucking be here. He should be kayaking and doing push ups. What? No, he should not be. He's driving climbing ropes. No, he's no, no, he should not be doing these things. Got to work out. I got to drive later. He's been playing. Now it's been five years that he's been planning this job. He's done. He's they bailed so many times. Shit has happened. The ramps ready. The weather's good. The car's ready. But there's what's the problem? Well, there's no audience because the Hollywood backers also don't want an audience. So he was ready to jump a year ago. Yeah, he pulled out. Yes. For new guys who did the exact same thing the other guys did. Yes. Okay. So decision making seems to be flawed. And they won't allow any press. So it's literally happening for no one. It's like he's doing it. He just needs it now. He's doing it in a vacuum. He's just like, please let me die. Please just let me die this way. I just try to die this way for five years. If you don't let me now, the cancer is going to get me. What was that? I'm dying of cancer. So the last jump he did was 12 chuck wagons. Okay. In Edmonton a couple of months ago. Yeah. It's about a mile. It's about a mile. It's about a mile. 12 chuck wagons. 50 feet mile. Whatever. About 50 feet. So that's just a few thousand feet shy. So it's two hours from the jump. Right? Two hours. Everyone showed up. Everyone's there. The crew goes on strike. They want. They feel like they haven't been paid enough and they want $27,000 in cash. And they put a barricade up at the top of the ramp so he can't jump. You ain't jumping it. Give us $27,000 if you want to die. It's like such extortion that it's insane. Well the whole thing's insane. The word extortion doesn't exist on a fucking river, a mile long river jump with Hollywood backers. So where you shot a kayaking montage to show how the driver trains to steer straight. So they're all discussing it for a while. Everyone's trying to figure it out. They need to figure out how to get the money because this is the seven. It's not like you can just go get $27,000. No. Unless you're part of some heroin syndicate. You just have money laying around. So late. The car's ready to go. It's 5 p.m. They finally get the cash. I can't believe they get the fucking cash. They get the cash at 5 p.m. It's now hours after it was supposed to happen. It's now 6 45 p.m. It's getting dark. Crime jumping hour. It's getting dark. Crime jumping hour. There's bats out. Yeah. So you hit a bat or two on the way. Fine. But just think about the car shooting across the river, sunset behind it. We come to Canada. You can see the postcard. We haven't tested an eighth of a mile. It's perfect. It's not big crowd shows up because they're hearing about it. So the crowds there anyway, they're all on the roads around it. That's a position Carter gets on the runway that gets in the car. It's fucking go time. And then he starts screaming, there's a leak. I can't see anything. There's a leak. So they go over to get him out of the car. There's some sort of valve thing. I think I think it was part what was supposed to happen with the car. But he just flipped out like it was a lot of steam is supposed to come out. Sure. Took off. It was a rocket engine. Yeah. What? The steam coming out of a rocket engine? I hate steam. New, ewe steam. Ewe, ewe steam. So they can't. So now it's too late. Yeah. It's always too late with this dumb idea. And then they can't do it the next day because one of the Hollywood guys, producer Mark Sennett, has a bar mitzvah. Guys, we can't do the jump tomorrow. My buddy's kid's turning into a man. We can't. Hey, we can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. Hey, guys, I told you I had a, Saturday was off. I have a thing. I can't do it. What kind of thing? It's a bar mitzvah. It's an all day thing though. I got to help my friend set up. I don't know what that is. I'm from Canada. A 13 year old Jewish boy is becoming a man in the eyes of God today. And you want to go jump your little rocket river, huh? No, no, no. Okay. That's fair. You make sure that the bar mitzvah, at one point you had to think, I mean, I probably could have done both. Yeah, can't you jump it? I probably could have done both. Yeah, but you know what you don't, you don't want to show up to the bar mitzvah. Hey, what happened today? No, you go bar mitzvah death. Yeah, you go bar mitzvah death. You've got kind of that Gotti glow outlook right now after the bar mitzvah. You're ready to see your friend becoming a skin accordion. Right. You kiss it, you're at the bar mitzvah and you're like, you're a man. I saw a man become not a man today. Hey, I found one man and another man I knew is not here anymore. He's on a rock. He's smushed into rock. So they set up for seven days later, October 3rd, October 3rd. It's cloudy, it looks like it's going to rain. Well, we can't do it Thursday, I have volleyball. Friday's no good. Wednesday's hockey. Wednesday's hockey. Oh shit. Friday I got to take the kid. Next Saturday I could do. I could do next Saturday. I said I was playing a cheer with my mom. Oh, that's right. That's all that I have softball. Right. Let's see. Sunday. Sunday works. Sunday works. Okay. If it doesn't work Sunday, Monday I'm booked. We'll do Sunday. We'll make it happen. I'll make sandwiches. Okay. So October 3rd, the ground crew has been cut to a minimum. The rescue boat has been cut. The rescue crew has been cut down from six frogmen, a barge with a crane and two high powered speedboats to two guys in a little boat. What are they fucking? Because he can't swim. Yeah, but he's not going to need to swim. Dead bodies can't swim ever. You're such a naysayer. You don't need a lifeguard for a man who's in 80 pieces. Now he's going to land on the other side. They get a net. That's what you need is a net. You need one guy with a net. He's going to land on the other side. No, he's not. Where there's a big meadow. Someone goes over there. Someone goes over there and shooes all the cows out of the way. Because that's- Put on one of those cow shows. Well, they go over to the cows and they go, hey, look, a guy's going to die here in a little bit. Can you move? The cow band is playing about a half mile that way. A guy's going to die here in a little bit. Can you move? Sorry. Awful. Awful. So there's no crowd. Maybe 50 people show up this time. I want to do it in front of the cows. This one's for the cows. So they get him in the car and he sits there checking and rechecking. And the AC doesn't work. Kind of. He just sits there rechecking and checking his harness and his safety stuff. Different things for an hour. He just sits there checking and they're like, go, go. And he's like, I'm just checking this. I'm checking this. And then it starts to rain. Oh my God. So the jump is canceled. Two days later, Carter's having meetings with the producers. They're talking about doing stuff in Europe. They want him fresh for Europe. Maybe this jump isn't such a good idea because he might be too hurt or something because they want to take him on this tour of Europe. And it suddenly dawns on Carter that the reason he's in Ottawa having a meeting with the producers, which is an hour away from the jump site, is that someone else is doing the jump right now. Oh my God. And sure enough, Kenny Powers is doing the jump. Shut up. And Carter says he's never gone in a car over 100 miles an hour. He's completely unqualified for the jump. Well, that's a horrible thing to say when you're racing to go 260. But at least Carter has done those things. At least Carter has gone in a car and gone 260. At least he has done a bunch of jumps in cars, which Kenny Powers has not. Here's something I never thought I'd say. He's the most qualified to do this. I almost spit up. So Powers suits up to make the jump. Yeah. The cool thing is they also talked to Powers at the top of the ramp. There's no fucking way. Like I said before, there's no fucking way this is possible. And Powers is supposed to wear a special back brace whenever he jumps because his back's been broken so many times, which he forgot. Because how could you? Yeah. Because you're going to make the craziest jump of all time, forget the one thing that might help you. Oh shoot, my back's broke. And Powers has been driving in Ken Carter's Daredevil show for 10 years. This is like Robin stealing the Batmobile. It's really fucked up. That's very good. So he's an hour away at the hotel room while this is going on. The crew members who are on Kenny's side are taken away from the set, whatever you want to call it. His brother, Ken Carter's brother, is put in a car and they drive him to some faraway island and just drop him off in the middle of nowhere. Hey, you see that? Why don't you go grab that for us? It's like that hit scene in The Godfather where they kill all the guys. Without the hit. He's got to be expecting the hit. He's like, I will take this. This sounds fine. And now I'm going to let you watch the video and you can tell me what you see and how great it is. Wait. There it goes. It's going and up the ramp and oh. Oh boy. So what happened there? It went very high off the ramp. And about one second in, parachutes went off and there's some sparks and then it just slowly pathetically floated into a river nearby. And now you can see Kenny Powers, I think, in the car, in the demolished car doing what we'll call the float of shame. So look how close to the river's edge he is. He's like 30 feet away. To say that they're a mile away from their goal is pretty accurate. I mean, look at that car. So there's the two guys in the boats getting him. Those guys are like, yeah, we're on the hour. That was great. That was good. So what happened was the whole time they're taking him out of the car, all he's saying here is, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow. So they take him and they lay him down. What happened was when the fiberglass car hit the, so it's a rocket car and then there's a fiberglass body built around it so it looks like a Lincoln or whatever. So it all started to break up when it hit those bumps because it wasn't made to be on a fucking bumpy throne. So Kenny Powers had no experience so he couldn't keep his foot on the pedal because he wasn't used to anything like this. So he took his foot off the pedal, which caused the parachutes to fly out. But he's so lucky that he did the dumbest thing, which is took his fucking foot off the gas. So he is incredibly lucky. And the best part too is how the car has dumb little wings. The wings I think make it fly. I don't think it does. There's no way those dumb wings come into play. So we're watching it in slow motion again. See it's completely breaking up and then here it like. Oh my God, pieces are just flying off. The whole time as pieces are flying off it's going, it's like sputtering and clouds of smoke are coming out of it. He broke eight vertebrae, three ribs and had a fractured wrist. Kenny Carter is furious. And as he described it, he said they took my pension. So he was literally thinking of this as his retirement. He thought he'd be the number one daredevil in the world. He would be able to sell all the toys and all the shit that evil was doing. In his mind, he was going to do this thing that could never be done. And then he was going to be Evil Knievel. Hey, it doesn't always work out how you draw it up. It's like the old saying goes, sometimes your friend takes the death car away from you and drives it into the river, taking your pension away. A year later, Ken Carter was still talking about making the jump, still talking about trying to get it together. It'd be hard to be friends with him that year after. Oh, horrendous. He made a record breaking 180. He started jumping in rocket cars. He made a 186 foot jump in a rocket car at Cayuga Speedway. And then and then he went back to now I have to break that record. So he was in the back in the record breaking thing when he should be fighting sons of anarchy at the Cow Palace, right? So on July golfing on July 1 1983, he tried to jump a pond in Peterborough, Ontario. I mean, what a step away. He was just about to do a mile jump over a river. And I was like, this pond, this pond's days are numbered. Look out pond. There's a new pond in town. The jump failed when he couldn't control the car. And you see the jump and he he I'll put it up on the Facebook page. The dollop has a Facebook page. I'll put it up there. But he goes off sideways. Oh, good. Yeah, because he because it was a rocket. Yeah, rocket cars are hard to handle. It sounds like I haven't heard a lot of good rocket car stories. Not a lot of those end with like it was amazing. So he vowed to make the jump again on September 5th. That day the races this is after it's supposed to be after the races. All the races went long and it was so late that they got bumped. They painted the car yellow so the cameras could see it. I don't know why I don't like this. If you're painting a car at the last minute right before you jump, they're painting the cars yellow. Maybe don't do the cameras can see you like, OK, OK. Will I be able to see it was after midnight? Oh, good. Anyone who wanted to jump a rocket car after midnight? No. At the very last minute, he decided to put more rocket fuel in the tanks. It's all make it's all it's all make sense. He's not smart. He's very smart. Everyone that everyone who was there that spoke to him said he wasn't confident that he seemed off that day. He asked someone to do a will for him. But he was really concerned about the loss of publicity he's had over the past two years. I mean, years because because he didn't do those jumps and and there was no one gave a shit about jumping cars in a stadium anymore. Because Evil Knievel had jumped. Yes, had tried to jump. Evil Knievel never jumped. It didn't even matter. Yeah, it didn't even matter what he did. He still just he did it the best, even if he walked into an ass backwards. Yeah, he really. So now this guy's like all or nothing. He's like, I must die to beat Evil Knievel. I must die. Says car overshot the landing ramp and landed on its roof. It overshot the landing ramp by a hundred. You just need to be bigger by a hundred feet. He's well, OK, then fuck it. Carter was killed instantly. Oh, shit. He severed massive head, chest and other injuries. Literally the car goes off the ramp and flips over. And you've seen this. Yeah, I can put that video up to flips over and lands on its roof. It's it. You look at it, you go, oh, that guy's dead. Oh, my God. There's no fucking way in hell anybody survives that. Wow. So it overshot up by a hundred feet. It went way up too high. Flips over, lands on its roof, and that's it. Oh. And Evil Knievel was right. It sort of was the end of stunt driving and stuff. People still do it. Not what this guy wants to hear. But it's not like it's no longer as big as it was. They were the fuck. Evil Knievel was the king. Stunt guys were the king. And now when people do it, everyone goes, oh, that's a little weird. Yeah. But I can't believe he died. Powers continue to be a daredevil. Of course. It always works out for that shithead. He told the newspaper in 1986 that he had been a stuntman in films like Smoking the Bandit, Hooper, Vanishing Point, and the Blues Brothers. He said his career was winding down a film because, and I quote, there are a lot of younger kids coming along now in the motion picture business. Now I just do the stunts that nobody else will do. Oh, that's nice. Yeah. So that's Kenny Powers, of which none is true. He was touring with Carter when Smoking the Bandit was made. He's never been in a film. He's not credited on the IMDB with any stunts. He's just credited being in four documentaries. About head injury. Yeah. And delusion. He's a total, his wife put this on a forum that I found. Oh, wow. He was as proud, if not prouder, of being a veteran than being a stuntman. Kenny didn't think twice about driving through fire and flipping cars over, but he was afraid of a few things. He was extremely afraid of heights. Okay. He was afraid of the wood scorpions that are native to where we are from. He was afraid of bears and wild cats that used to stay below our house. And believe it or not, he was extremely afraid of ocean fish. He had an obsession about keeping porcelain clean and keeping refrigerators at the perfect temperature. I mean, if our refrigerator wasn't the wrong temperature at 2 a.m., he would actually wake me up. We would take the back of the refrigerator off and vacuum it. So she's the real stunt person. That list is insane. That list starts off, it starts off and you're like, duh. And by the end you're like, eh, what the fuck just happened? So you know, we just had to vacuum the fridge. Because he got up in the middle of the night and checked the temperature. Times two, baby. Times two low on the fridge. Times two low, get the vacuum. We got a vacuum. I'll move the fridge, you get the vacuum. Got to keep it perfect. I used to be a stunt man, you know. I never knew from one minute to the next what he was going to do. It sounds about right. Yeah, that's about it. Neither did his friend, Ken Carter. I'm afraid of scorpions and warm fridges. He performed his last stunt in 2006. Kenny Powers carried an eight by 10 photograph of Ken Carter every place he went until his death. In 2013, stuntman Ed Begley, Big Ed Begley received the rights from the Idaho Department of Lands to reproduce Knievel Snake River Jump for a price of $943,000 to jump the canyon on the 40th anniversary of the attempt, which is September 7th. What? Wait, so that's coming up? Yeah, less than a month. He's going to do it? Yeah, guy's going to try it again. Holy shit. That's great. Yeah. We're going to have a watching party. A viewing, we'll call it. Yeah, that would be pretty amazing. That's crazy. Fuck. How's that for a story? Real good. I mean, the Daredevil thing is like they all were bad at it. Evil Knievel was bad at it. He was good at jumping things in a stadium, but whenever they tried to take it out of the stadium, they all fucked up. It also is just basically like Evil Knievel, like you said early, he just did it on a motorbike. Yeah, and that looked cooler. He had the cape. More intimate, you could see the bones breaking. And that's so beautiful. Yeah, it's gorgeous. Whereas Ken Carter just flopped like a pancake to his death. But I will say this, he is right at the fact that he would have done that jump better. Yeah. But all that would have happened was the car would have just landed in the middle of the river. This is why I think it's best case scenario, because if he had it better in this situation is further. Yeah. Further is not it's just going south. Like where Kenny fucked up was like basically close to the peak. Yeah. And I don't think going well is going further. It's not. You're saying if Carter went further than Kenny Powers. A higher chance of death. I agree. He would have landed out in the middle. It's a car. You need two baby parachutes. Cars can't jump a mile. Yeah. No. Can we just all agree, if there's anything that Dollop agrees on. I think we are on the same page. We've reached an agreement. Cars can't drive a mile. Oh, they can drive. No, no, no, no. We're on record at the Dollop. Cars can't drive a mile. You heard it here first. They can't drive a mile. Well that's the two daredevils. Listen. One man spurred another man to do something ridiculous. That's why the power of no. Yeah also choose a career that you can retire in. Also have a regular pension. Choose a career where someone demanding $27,000 isn't going to ruin your career. Right before your career is about to take off. All right. Well that was a Dollop. That's our longest Dollop yet. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. That's long, huh? That's a long story. That's a lot to do. That was a lot to go over. God damn. All righty. And there's Canadians. There's Canada's big entry into the Dollop. Congratulations. Welcome aboard, eh? Hi everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollop Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv August 6th through the 8th. Then I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas August 19th. Join me there or join me the next night August 20th at the State Theater in Austin or Texas if that doesn't work for you. Join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington August 26th. The following night I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club August 27th. Go to GarethReynolds.com to get tickets for all those dates. I love you.