 I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Stay with me. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to Tickling Podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Adopt Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. I said, don't. Right in the middle of a conversation? Yeah. We are having a conversation. Hey, welcome to Conversations. This is a weekly conversation that Gary Reynolds and I have. Gareth, Gareth. Really? Yup. Really? Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Well, why don't you do something? What? And then you try to figure out what your goddamn name is. My name is Gareth. Okay, well listen to the intro. It doesn't matter what you've done to the intro to make my name seem like it's not Gareth. It's Gareth. It just played. And I don't know why you have this conquest to end my name. It's just the rage of an English person when they're given a nickname. The people, the Welsh, the English, when you're given a nickname. And each time it's so different. You're going so far away from all that. Happy people. Oh, absolutely. Always been recognized as the happiest. Potato famine. So, so Gary, there is, we're going to go back to the 70s and start this one. Alright, like it. Roland Stewart. Roland Stewart? Roland Stewart. R-O-L-L-E-N, Stewart. Okay. Was born and raised in Spokane, Washington. Okay. Miss Valeria? Yeah, sure. He did not have a great beginning. His parents were alcoholics. Okay. His father died when he was seven. His mother was killed in a house fire when he was 15. And then that same year his sister was strangled by her boyfriend. Oh my god. So, so right out of the shoot. Yeah. You can guess that Roland's going to have some issues. I would hope he'd roll in with the punches. I'll see you later. Good night. End of podcast. Yeah. He turned out to be very shy. Okay. He got into drag racing in high school. Okay. Married his first love. Okay. Always a good thing to do. Yeah. No, that always works out well. Opened up a speed shop. A speed, oh, just like a... Yeah, like cars. I don't think he was like, hey everyone come and get your speed. I've got to meet Vaseo. We got crosstops, we got them all. And you're under arrest? For what? It's a speed shop. I'm legally selling speed. If you open a shop, I've been very up front about my speed business. They had a daughter and his wife soon left him. Okay. Good. He was crushed, he sold the shop and moved to a mountain ranch where he became a marijuana farmer. So far I like Roland. All natural transitions. Yeah. That... Oh, and he tried to grow the world's longest mustache. Oh, that's an O for you? That's a lean story for me. So right there you get a taste of something's off. Like if you move somewhere and you go, I want to grow the world's biggest mustache, that means you're looking for some sort of validation and you want people to go, look at your mustache. Oh, I don't know how to talk about it. Oh, the thing that's behind me in the truck? Yeah. Oh, the thing that those two guys are carrying for six bucks an hour? Yeah, yeah. That's just my mustache. Yeah, the back of the jacket says world's biggest. Look, I don't want to talk about it. I don't. It's just a thing that I have. I'm a regular person. I can't cut it or I lose my powers. I put my pants on just like you, one leg at a time while biting the hair on my face to make it not go down the legs. Okay, so? He ended up watching a lot of TV, which I bet 50% of pot farmers both watch a lot of TV and try to grow the world's biggest mustache. Me too. But he didn't find this life satisfying. So he moved to Hollywood to become an actor. Oh, I'll tell you what I love about LA. The people who make that decision always seem to come out on top. Well, it's not a place to come if you fall in love with acting and want to pursue it as a craft. It's a place to come when your mustache dreams have ended. Yes. I can't hack into the mustache fits. Maybe I'll act. Okay, so? Acting didn't work out. Dave, another shocking footnote. I know. It's really this whole story. It's like he's making such a good decision. Yeah. So he needed attention. So in the late 70s, he started going to sporting events dressed in a rainbow wig. Oh, boy. Here we go. He got some attention because the cows should find that. There's the guy with the rainbow wig. Look at him. There he is again. He would do dances, you know, whenever the camera would be on him. Sure. Crazy. Dance camp. So then he got, so he, this is what he was looking for when he grew the mustache. He wanted. This filled the whole mustache. This was filling his mustache hole. His mouth. So he started going to more and more events. Oh, boy. He would look for the, he would scout out before the game, the best place to go where he would be on camera. Okay. And then, and then that's where he'd, you know, get his tickets. He would start showing up behind the hoops of basketball games. So whenever they're shooting the basket through the glass backboard, you would see him just standing there. Sure. He'd go behind the goalpost. So when they kick the ball, there's the guy with the rainbow head. Yeah. Anywhere the camera pointed, that's where he was. His first really big event was the 1977 NBA finals. And everyone quickly came to know him after that. And he got the nickname Rainbow Man. So he's, he's now living the dream. Let's pump the brakes. That's so fast, Anthony. He's living the dream. He's, a man made a goal. First that goal was to grow a mustache, the longest. Then the man made another goal to be an actor. And then the man made another goal to be known for wearing a rainbow wig. You're forgetting about the speed business as well. Also, okay. So he also started with the speed shop. Yeah. Then he, so he had a few dreams. A great. But he finally, but he finally fell upon. The right one. The right one. And he literally found, he really, I literally found the one thing that would take almost nothing to accomplish. Right. Except by a $2 wig. And the legend was born. Rainbow Man. I'm Rainbow Man. So. Directors of sporting events started hating him and the broadcasters. God damn Rainbow Man. Because he would always be in these fucking shots. And it started, it just started to drive them fucking crazy. And cameramen would get fired for putting him in the shots. And directors were getting fired by the broadcasters. So the word was out. Do whatever you can to avoid putting him on camera. Do whatever you can to avoid Rainbow Man. Whatever. So, and he would pop up, ever. So he'd always pop up in the crowd at the appropriate moment, waving his arms and doing thumbs up gestures. And like, hey Rainbow Head's here! And then I'll be like, aw fuck. Jesus Christ. Gritting like an idiot. So it went on for three years. Oh God. Just this cat and dog game. And everyone knew who Rainbow Head was at this point. Everybody knew. He was, anybody who watched sports was like, there's the rainbow guy doing the rainbow dance. But it never in your head, like because I was a kid, it never did it go like, in my head it went, why is he everywhere? Well you grew up in it. Yeah. So you were like, Rainbow Man or in sports. That's a thing. Sports. It'd be weird if he wasn't there. It's true. I guess in my head I probably thought it was different guys not realizing that this was a guy who just went all around the country to sporting events. So he's just like driving in that fucking van? Yeah, basically. We'll get to that. Oh boy. So he also would wear shorts. It says later fur shorts. He was wearing fur shorts. Fur shorts is really bad. Keep it hot. That's really tough. Keep everything else cool, but keep the center part fucking hot. Hey guys, look it's pub shorts. Yeah, pub shorts. Yeah, hey everyone. He'd do a little dance, it was more like a fucking crazy gyration thing. It was just that, it was like a bad dead head dance. You can't plan the moves that are going to come out of Rainbow Head. No you can't, it's natural. Yeah. It flows. Yeah, there's no need to choreograph it. It flows forth from the rainbow. Exactly. He had the money to attend all the events because he sold his ranch. Okay. And he also had a little bit of inheritance money from his parents all dying horribly. And I bet this is exactly how they wanted him to use that. Well this is what they said. They said we want you to get into rainbows. You know son, someday your mother's going to burn and I'm going to be gone. When that time comes, I want you to take all the money we give you and lose your shit completely. So he was a businessman with a business plan. Hell, I think that's right on the money. I think that nails it. The idea, in his head what he was doing was he was creating a shtick so then media, he would be a media pitch man. Like companies like Coke would be like, holy shit, look at that idiot dancing like a fucking lunatic behind the goal. We should hire him as a pitch man. Let's get a piece of that. Yeah. Yeah. Let's get on that crazy train. This makes sense. It's what we're calling the advertising Hail Mary. Well he is essentially early Kardashian. Like now he would probably be a thing. This level I'm okay with. This I'm okay with. Kardashian. Yeah, I got you. This is actually going to take a turn you might not be okay with. Well damn, you just said I'm sorry. I can't. What does this man have up his sleeve? Yeah, it gets a little, you know. I don't. Okay. Alright. So he actually got a Budweiser commercial which isn't surprising. Budweiser and sports, right? They always did that so he probably was in one of those things. At the end they probably just had him dancing real quick or something. It wasn't like he was like, hi I'm Rainbow Man. Right. You know here at Anheuser-Busch we're always dedicated to making the best taste of his most refreshing beer. That's why these hops right here come straight from the earth to your mouth. And then he just dances. And then he just throws up glitter. He was paid to attend parties in his wig. Oh wow. So I guess the Hollywood people were like, let's get fucking Rainbow Man. Right? Because he's an oddity and you'd be like, there he is. And he'd come in in his first shorts. A lot of coke at that party probably. Let's get Rainbow Man. Yeah, a lot of coke. So he was living a party man life. In those years he said he was in the dark abyss of sexual promiscuity and wanton drug abuse. Jesus. He later said... He's not the Rainbow Man I signed up for. Well but he's now a thing. So if you're a thing you get to go and party with everybody. You get to fuck Andy Warhol. So he's probably at the Playboy Mansion. Oh there's fucking Rainey. He's like that guy now. He said I was going to sail around the world on my waterbed. I mean it's a... So when he said that... I don't think he's being literal. I don't think he's actually thinking he can sail around the world on his waterbed. I think he's thinking he can fuck everybody. Also he's bragging that he had a waterbed. Hey listen at that time that was a brag. Everybody had a waterbed? It might be time to get waterbeds again. Hey you want to fuck up your back? I do. Hey you want something you can wake up and soak in? Here you go. I just think he's sleeping without the potential for drowning. Everything changed the day he attended the Super Bowl in 1980. What? Oh no. What? I just... Rainbow Man... I can't wait....later recalled, I had gone in my fur, loincloth and wig. I mean right there. It's a good start to any statement. It's a great start to a story. Anybody who says that you're like, I'm in. I would like to hear the rest of your story. It's very reminiscent of the State of the Union. The girls loved it. Everywhere I walked there a pat may on the butt. I could have held a thousand women in my arms that day. And yet I walked out of there sad. It was shallowness. I was being seen all over the world but never as myself. Yeah. That's what happens when you put rainbow wig on and wear fur shorts. You're not a man. Um... The thing is, yeah, don't wear the fur shorts and the rainbow wig and then people see you as who you are. You were who you were. If you wanted to be who you were, then you would just sit in the crowd and watch the fucking game. You tried to be the guy who had the mustache. That didn't work. But that wasn't him, was it? No, not him. That guy. Nobody gave a fuck about that guy. Nobody gives a shit. You're not the beat shop guy. No. Why don't you keep your fucking marriage together and be known as like the Little League coach? Yeah. People know you. So that night, after he returned to his hotel room, he turned on a television show called Today in Bible Prophecy. Oh, fuck me. What? You bastard. Oh, no. What? This is not what I expected. It was about the impending apocalypse. Oh, no. Oh, no. I believe in revelations. There is a hint of Rainbow Man, right? And let's face it, if you've tried to grow the world's longest mustache and then you try to be an actor and now you're a guy in a rainbow wig dancing around, you are susceptible... You can be swayed......to the Lord Jesus Christ. So he says, I fell to my knees there in that room and allowed Jesus to take control of my life. So he was literally born again in front of a television in a shitty hotel room. I assume with the wig and the loincloth. Or did he come in and take the loincloth? That's Jesus Christ's dick. Would you take off his suit and get home from work? Would he take his wig and throw it on the bed? No, I would do it when I was having my born again moment and I dropped to my knees. That's when I would take it off. Dramatic. I'd be like, I'm not... I'm just me now. Tears running down. Whatever you want, rainbow man or just me, Lord. Only Jesus can see me beneath the wig. Tell me what to grow. Sweet Lord. So now he considered himself to be a self ordained minister. I'm sorry? Yeah. That's a very... No, that's it. He's in. I mean, look, this shit doesn't take long. Well, I was at the holiday inn. I'm a minister. So, how's that? Right? That's how this works. I stayed at a holiday inn last night. Yeah, I watched a TV show at a hotel yesterday. So, now I'm a priest. Oh, I don't know what to say about that. Call me Father, please. Father Rainbow. To give into the world through the rainbow man character to accept Christ as its savior was his one mission. It's a pretty crazy mission. Oh, I don't know. I think it's pretty... I don't know. Well, now that we've led here naturally, like, I know the progression, but I think if you take that out of context and just say that a rainbow man is going to be spreading the word of the Lord, it sounds weird. That sounds okay. It sounds weird. A rainbow man is spreading the word of the Lord? Yeah, right there. Already, it's weird. Well, you haven't met a rainbow man, obviously. No, I haven't. So he hit the road. He suddenly started showing up to events wearing Jesus Saves and Repent T-shirts and carrying signs. So now he's just gone ape shit. Now he's the first thing who's out of his tits. But now he has a focus. Yeah, I don't know. He's so not gone out of his tits. You hear rainbow man's born again? He hasn't. He has no idea how far he's going to go, quote, out of his tits. Oh, no. Not sweet rainbow man. He was eating one meal a day. He was smoking massive amounts of marijuana and blitzkrieging the country for the Lord. He was hitting up 12 sporting events a week. Oh, my fucking God. What a fucking life. That's not a life. This isn't a life. Oh, shit, that's a fucking... It's a life. That is not a life. Well, okay, because you've never tried to spread the word of the Lord. No, and I've never gone... It's hard. It's hard. He's basically hitting two events a day. Well, he's committed. But my question is, why did I get a hot dog at those events? Yeah, why did you do something? What happened? Popcorn or anything. They got all kinds of... He was smoking weed. Yeah, Jesus. No appetite? All I was doing was smoking weed, so obviously I had no appetite. What? Yeah, I was salivating. After a while, he realized the stuff he was writing on the signs was not hitting the mark because everyone in the world hadn't become a Christian. So he figured by now, with all the stuff he was doing, everyone would see... He thinks that people are going to see him on TV and go, oh, Jesus, I'm in. They're going to drop to their knees like he did. Because he's so fucking stupid that that's how easy it was for him to be converted. Right, yeah. He just turned on the TV. Yeah. Yep. So he switched... And that's not working. Just to be clear, that's not working. That's not working. Okay, all right. And I think this is where you may have a little connection. Excuse me? He switched to signs with scriptural references, the main one being John 316. Now, have you seen this at games? Yeah. Do you remember this? A guy holding a 316 sign? Well, I know that there's... I know people hold 316 signs. But people still do it today. He started it. Okay. I don't know. What is the... For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Go Raiders! Wait. See, that's my problem with the... I mean, not that I have a problem with the Bible. Yeah. But what does that... You had read it to me. I don't know what it means. Is he dying? No, I don't know. It means that he gave his son and then he got... We killed him. And then whoever believes in this son gets to have everlasting life. Have you seen the show Leftovers? No. That's a good call. So if you're watching sports during the 80s, there's no way you didn't see him. Okay. You know what I mean? I must have seen him, yeah. He'd be behind the goal post or the hoop or the plate. The best ones were behind the plate during a fucking baseball game. He's just sitting there in those seats. It's hours. The guy you always see for three and a half hours. He's just fucking sitting there. World Series. Just, there he is. People going, oh God, how do we get him off camera? He can't. He's just crying. Yeah. And his whole idea is you see the sign, John 316, and you'll go look it up and then you'll be like, holy fuck, the Bible is awesome. I gotta get a wig. Which I did. I went. Really? Yeah, because you saw the sign so much that you wouldn't read it. But you didn't know the Bible was awesome. Well, I went to the Bible and I opened it up because my grandmother had one. Right. And I crack it open and I'm like, oh, this is that amazing. And I threw the Bible away like you're supposed to. I don't think that's what you're supposed to do. Yeah, you carve out a place for a weapon to keep inside. Right. That I know. That's definitely what most of the Bible's about. There's some good stuff about fingering in there. There's some good stuff in the Bible. Yeah, no, the figuring stuff is great. Figure 915, that's a great prover. Fingering 915 is the best. That's really good. She shelt the quiver. In 1984, Rainbow Man met Margaret Hawkridge, a boarding and grade school teacher. They met in a church in Virginia, because obviously he goes to church wherever he is. Yep, probably in the league. Margaret found herself in awe of him. Like, how could you not? If you meet a dude and he's like, you know what I do? I go to games and I wear a wig and a loincloth and I hold up signs. Swoon! Oh, wow. He's got it all. Religious issues, a wig. This is my boyfriend, Rainbow Man. He tried to grow the world's biggest mustache. How are you? I'm out of my mind. Hey, how you guys doing? I'm fucking crazy. Hey, how you doing? I had a piece of toast earlier. That'll be it. I'm going to do a bathtub bong now. The two bought a Toyota van and hit the road for the Lord. Ten months later, they were married in St. Louis. The bride dressed in mauve. And Rainbow Man wore a Jesus is Coming t-shirt. Oh, God. Like a groom does. That's a pretty amazing look. I'd pay anything because he wedding photos. Oh, yeah. I mean, anything. The photographer was like, honestly, it doesn't matter. Yeah, I guess hold it tighter. Do you really want pictures of this? Yeah. All right, perfect. Can we do a couple without the wig? No. What about the shirt? Like, I get that you wear that for your business. I get that you're a suave businessman. I mean, clearly you know what you're doing. You're wearing a Jesus is Coming t-shirt. He should be wearing red flags. That's what an artist should be. There could not be a crazier man. Just stitch together red flags. OK, so now they're just traveling around the country doing this. He's getting some money from commercial residuals, a little bit of the commercials. Oh, the bubble butt, yeah. And he got money left over from selling his ranch. He's still got that. But he lives in his car with his wife because they don't have a lot. And they're saving enough because they are spreading the word. That's hard to have at home when you go to 12 sporting events a week. It really is. She is also flashing Bible signs. Oh, good. Yeah. Good. Sort of yoke on her way into the project. They're a team now. Yeah, finally. They start getting donations from other Christians because they're spreading the word. So now they're going around, they go to church and they'll be like, This man is the one you see on the television spreading the word of Jesus. And they need some donating that everyone would kick in. Good luck. They pass the wig around. We're going to pass the wig around. You just throw your money in there. If you don't have any money to throw in the wig, that's OK. But if you could spare some, that would really help the cause. So. Again, donations. It's all happening, right? This is all happening. It's all happening. It's all happening now. The guys are living the life. He's driving 50,000 miles a year and now going to over 100 events a year. 100 events a year, which has got to be costly because he's got to get the good seats. It's a nightmare. It's living the life. It's a nightmare. So now you want to know where he's going? To heaven? Golf tournaments. OK. There's great pictures of golfers swinging and him just standing there with a wig and a sign right behind them in the middle of the crowd. It looks so fucking insane. You're like, why is there a clown there? Why is there a clown? That's when Jesus clown. Everyone else is dressed up in golf clothes and there's this crazy clown. Excuse me. Mind if I push up to the front a little bit here? Excuse me. Pardon me. Jesus is coming to the front. Jesus is coming to the front. I'm out of my tits. Pardon me. Excuse me. Hi. I'd like a little room for the sign, thanks. He's appeared in numerous World Series, the Summer and Winter Olympics, Arrested in Russia for the Winter Olympics, Republic and Democratic National Conventions, the Indy 500, the Kentucky Derby, the NBA and NCAA Bascola Finals, the Stanley Cup, the Miss America Pageants, Oh my God. and the wedding of Di and Princess Charles. Whoa, what the fuck? Rainbow Man. That I can't even comprehend. Because if he can't get up there behind them when they're doing the, then he's just, It would be great if it was the priest all of a sudden like, We're gonna gather here. I'm just kidding, it's Rainbow Man. Hey, Jesus. Hey, Jesus. Oh, and he hated sports. Oh, that's an interesting fact toy. What a nightmare. So the whole time he's like, oh, fuck this. God damn it. I wish God wasn't making me do this. I can't even enjoy the fucking game because it's nonsense. I hate sports. He told People Magazine, I despise sports. People who go to sporting events are like the Romans who went to watch the lions eat the Christians. It's a little different because people are being eaten by animals. Nobody's dying. Nobody dies. It's just people. Huge difference. Right there. It's just a game? It's a game. And nobody dies. And there's no animals. There's no animals at all. Unless you go to an animal show. Like a dog show. Which I'm sure he was at. I'm sure he was at Westminster. I'm sure he was. But that doesn't end with a dog eating a guy. No. They're not like, and now the dog will eat the Jew. And now the winning dog will eat the owner. As we do in three year here, horribly weird tradition. One will continue now. Oh my god, it started with a groin. This is really something. She's really eating her now. She's really eating her owner now. This reminds me of Roman times. Hey, there's Rainbow Man. Hey, there's Rainbow Man. Come over here and you'll lose your shit for a minute. Okay. So he also didn't like television. Television is what introduced him to his best friend. I realize now television is a tool of Satan. I never watch TV unless it's to figure out my own strategy so that I can appear on it. So he started carrying a Sony Watchman to sporting events to figure out where the network cameras were located and how tight the camera angles were, placing himself in a position that when the camera came on, Rainbow Man was ready to bounce and spread the word of Jesus. So now they were onto him, so he would wait with the wig and the sign that they wouldn't see and then watch on camera and then pop it on at the right time. And then they're like, fuck! God damn it, that was Rainbow Man! Yes, I have two tickets for Roland. I'll hear you out, sir. There are video of him. He's looking and shaking, then you see him look down at his television and then look back up. Like he is strategizing. That is pretty smart, though, for a lunatic. No, for a lunatic. He's wearing a little TV. Yeah. I mean, he's dedicated. He's also a stickler for details. Is that right? At the 1986 World Series, which is a great World Series, Stuart lost his shit and tried to choke his wife when she stood in the wrong spot with her John 316 place card. So... Just as Jesus would have done. Yeah, right? That's what Jesus did. If you, back in the day, if like, say Matthew came out and stood with his sign in the wrong place, Jesus would fucking hit him in the kidneys, give him a couple fucking solar plexes and just choke him until he dropped in the dirt and then he'd look at the other disciples and he'd go, where do you stand with your signs? And they would all get in place. Morons. The fuck do you stand with your fucking signs? We're sorry, Lord. Listen, you fucking cunts. Sorry. Well, it's just one sin to prevent a thousand sins. Right. So it's just... He had to choke her. No, no, he had to choke her. He had to tell everybody... Right. The proverb. Thank you. Yeah. Ye shall choke ye wife as she stands in the sign placed ye wrong. So... And the Lord said... And the Lord said choke her. The Lord said choke the bitch, she ruined the whole evening. So... So he's almost impossible to avoid for the TV cameras. They just can't do it. An NBC executive said he's a pest. We try to take him out of a shot whenever we can. Rainbow Man starts to get... Rainbow Man now starts to get tossed out of stadiums. Now they've got like pictures of him. So the security guards are all waiting with him with signs. But what is he doing wrong? I mean, he's really nothing illegal. Well, that's just sad. He's a shithead. There is no valid... Because then you would have to say, okay, no signs in stadiums. Which they're not gonna do. Yeah. Because people like to come in and hold up their red skin signs because they're racist. Yes. And so he... He has a point. And he got into a lawsuit. I couldn't figure out what happened to the lawsuit, but he did sue RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C. How great would it be to be a fly on the wall with a lawyer and Rainbow Man? Best trial ever. Best trial ever. Alright, Rainbow Man, your turn. John 316! Okay, we were just... We rest. We rest, John. I think my class said everything you needed to say about holding that sign. Rainbow Man was not daunted. He kept at it. He had a dream. The dream was that someday he would control, like, sign Flasher Central and, like, conduct people all over the country to hold up signs at sporting events. So the dream that everyone has. The American dream. To be able to run the sign-holding headquarters. Right. Of America. Right. I had that when I was a kid. Yeah. Other people join in. So now he's gathering a group of followers who go around to different sporting events and hold up the signs. Oh, good. And they're everywhere. So now it's like a franchise of crazy, right? It's Rainbow Man. It's Rainbow Man. Yeah. Hallelujah, it's Rainbow Man. At this point, he and his followers have been on thousands of television events. SNL does a sketch about him starring Christopher Walken. The Simpsons draw him into an episode. He's characterized on St. Elsewhere in The Tonight Show. Charles Schulz draws him into a Peanuts cartoon. Oh, Jesus. He's fucking huge. Yeah. So now he's  it doesn't matter if he's making money or making a difference. Even if he's famous for being a pariah, he's like, it's working! They love me! But I remember, like, we all thought it was, like, harmless and stupid. Like, we were like, oh, there's the guy with the rainbow and he holds up the  Yeah, it shouldn't. He's the crazy religious guy, but he seemed like just a guy who was holding up a sign. Yeah. Well, turns out there's a little bit of darkness. Uh-uh. Uh-uh. Uh-uh. Uh-uh. Things are not right with Rainbow Man. His wife said his moods were constantly up and down. Just like a rainbow. In 1990, Margaret had an F and she filed for divorce. I can't believe it. She doesn't want to be Mrs. Rainbow Man anymore? I mean, at some point, you go, uh, wait, I was a teacher. I had a life once! And now I'm living in a shitty car, uh, just going to sporting events. Now I piss in cups in a van and go to watch teams that I don't care about. Uh, not so good. I'm going to call my mom real quick, Rainbow Man. Uh, and she  he was like, call me Rainbow Man when I fuck you. Yeah. Look at Rainbow Man when he fucks you. Make nobody listen to you on Rainbow Man. Look at the wig. Look at the wig. Look at the wig. Run your fingers through the wig. I'm just going to fuck your wig. Fuck it. Ah, yeah. He ends every session by coming on the wig. Oh. And why do you  why  you side of reconcilable differences. Well, he was just always fucking the wig. While staring me in the eyes. While shouting at me. Look me in the eyes! Um, his car was totaled by a drunk driver. His money ran out and he wound up homeless in LA. Finally. So he  Took a while. He's hit the stardom. But the stardom was all based on donations and residuals that dried up and his money. So that's all gone. So now he can't fund his lifestyle, which let's face it is a lavish, stupid lifestyle. It's very costly to be this big of a moron. And he became increasingly convinced that the end was near and decided to create a radically different media character. Uh, I mean, can we just savor this moment for a second? Well, it's like in Batman when Two-Face gets burned. Oh, okay. Right? Do you know? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's this moment. Now he just  Two-Face just got burned. This is where a normal man changes. I don't even mean to call him normal. But yeah, I'm excited. Let's hit it with it. He set off four stink bomb attacks in Orange County, California. And this is already great. At the Crystal Cathedral in Garden Grove, at a Christian bookstore also in Garden Grove, at the Trinity Broadcasting Studios, and at the offices of the Orange County Register newspaper. So in May of 91, an arrest warrant was issued for rape o' man. I mean, I can only assume. God, I hope he did it in the wig. I mean, come on. Okay, wait. So now he's setting off stink bombs. So he's just setting off stink bombs? Well, he's changed characters. I'm evil now. He's got like a grayish rainbow wig. He's starting to wear just a black one. Like a slashed hair. Okay. I thought the cops had to call him Rainbow Man. I guess. The cops are seriously going like, we've got to track down Rainbow Man. Sure? This better be about Rainbow Man. It is. We've got to lead on him. Son of a bitch. He's moving. Is Batman getting involved? Yeah. At the 91 Masters golf tournament, Rainbow Man was detained by authorities after he allegedly set off a remote controlled air horn, a loud buzzer, and several colorful smoke bombs. So he went and drank a rainbow of smoke. And then went, I'm weird. And he was like, I have nothing to do with that rainbow smoke thing. What do you mean? So now his thing is now, for whatever reason, now he disrupts the sports. Right. Well, he's changed tactics because it wasn't working. Yeah. Okay. But it's still for religion? He's still trying to spread word? He's just like- He does. How can you not see that? It takes a lot to think that his other plan was good. He's like, now he's turned into like a one man annoyance festival. Now he's just the worst. His personality is finally caught up with the wig. He's just a fucking nightmare. At that event, they did not press charges. The Masters people were like- Did they let you go? Yeah. I think they just didn't want to press. That makes sense. Does that make sense? Yeah. I mean, I would be like, yeah, just get him the fuck out of here. Because if they press charges, then it's a whole thing. It's like showing a streaker on TV. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Rambo Man was arrested for- It's actually a lot like showing a streaker on TV. Rambo Man was arrested for disturbing the public at the American Music Awards in LA after he tried to toss skunk sacks into the audience. Now, I assume that that's maybe an actual, like, can you buy actual skunk sacks? I would think that that's what it is. I bet it's like- Or did he trap a bunch of skunks- Not my Rambo. And rip their sacks out and then throw them in an audience? I don't think he did that. Okay, but he's homeless. Where is he getting the money? I think he trapped skunks and took out their parts. That procedure has to be a nightmare. Do you just see him up in the hill with his wig, cutting open a skunk? And the skunk's like, what the fuck is happening? Just take this out of your ass, buddy. My mom didn't tell me about this, Predator. The biggest threat to skunks right now is the Rainbow Man. Okay, guys, keep your eyes out for Rainbow Man. Coyote's a Rainbow Man. He's ripping up the stick sacks. But if you do that, you gotta get sprayed a shitload. Yeah, but he didn't care. No, he was probably like, yummy shower. He was like, you smell that? That's the smell of Jesus. Jesus made you smell funny. Rainbow Man said he wanted to show the world that God thinks this stinks. So that's why he's setting off. God is so literal. Yeah, God really is. I never knew him to be that way. Well, God also says this is poopy stuff. Yeah, that's true. That's all show about Big God saying. Yeah, well, it's like Na Na Na Na Boo Boo 314. Thanks. Doesn't matter what you say to me, you stink, because I'm rubber, you're glue. Proverb 1242, the book of. So at the same time, he sent out apocalyptic letters that included a hit list of preachers. Jesus signing the letters, the Antichrist. Oh, my God. Oh, holy shit. So he's really changed sides. Holy shit. Oh, yeah, that's what I needed. I needed that. I need to do that. That is that's a full transformation. I mean. Wouldn't it be great to just see him in a black, a black like slash wig with like he puts like makeup clown tears rolling down his face. This stakes. Okay. I Christ. So then came the Antichrist. I wonder if it was cursive, like a regular signature. Oh, it's had to have been some kind of crazy signature. No way he just signed it. The Antichrist. Yeah, he had to have done it in some crazy way. September 22nd, 1992, Rainbow Man believed the Rapture was only six days away. I don't like the headspace. That's going to put rain. So it's coming. It's coming to a head. We have less than a week. It's 12 sporting events away. That way. But he's not going to sporting events anymore. He's taken on a new tag. The Antichrist is essentially a villain. Yes. He's in a world in a world without Batman. Yeah. So first he watched TV for 18 hours straight. That's a good way to spend. And when you know there's six days left, I always say catch a good marathon. Well, he's like, okay, let's do like a clockwork orange and then I'm going to go hit up the world. So he sat there going, this is horrible. Look at these fucking green rules. Right? Just gearing himself up. And then posing a contractor, he picked up two day labors in downtown LA. Oh, no. Oh, Jesus. Those poor guys are probably like, cool, some work. No, this is so different from work. He was probably doing contractor talk too. Hey, you guys got five of those? I'm looking, I got a jib. Maybe we can, can I get you guys for the day? Done. And he drove to an airport hotel. With the day labors? He took them up to a room. Now, I just can only imagine what was going on in their head in the elevator. They're like, do do do. They've got to be thinking what in the fuck is happening? It's like in the girl with the dragon tattoo. Like you, you, even if there's maybe death there, you still are like, I don't want to be rude. Right. Yeah. You're still thinking, well, I do need 50 bucks today because I have a family. This guy has a yard on the 18th floor of the Radisson. I mean, what are we going to do? Go in there and build the dressing room? I don't know what's happening right now. And he wants us to take care of the room plant? I don't know. Senor, donde esta? So he walks into the, he walks into the room and there's a hotel made in the room. And in the confusion that follows, Rainbow Man pulls a gun. Oh Jesus. No Rainbow Man. No. Not my Rainbow Man. The two day laborers who you knew had already envisioned this being a possibility. Oh, this was definitely, I didn't. Bolved out the fucking door. Yeah. They just, they just are, they're like, fuck this shit. And one of the patrons is like, I told you. Give me 20 bucks. So the maid locks herself in the bathroom. Oh no. Rainbow Man then decided to light two small fires to attract attention to himself. So he lit a couple of fires in the room. His name should be to attract attention to himself. It's all a tiny, he's like, ah, I should light some fires. Then people will look, Rainbow Man, please. I'll kill this maid. Then people will listen. The police were called and SWAT surrounded the hotel. The bomb squad came. Meanwhile, Rainbow Man. I can't, I just can't believe that it's come to this. I mean, I remember the pictures of him being in a wig, looking out the window. Like, like, it, like the clown had gone crazy. And there were like pictures of him looking out the window in the fucking wig. He was in a Budweiser car and he's like, he's got a maid trapped in a room with a gun and he lit fires. SWAT team. You can find so many news reports online of like, anchors looking at the camera going in, today Rainbow Man took hostages. He had a Rainbow Man update. And more about Rainbow Man at 11. So he started posting biblical place cards in his hotel window. So like the hotel window was like, John 316, 1240, like it's just all plastered with all these crazy signs. He doesn't, and I guess lost on him is the fact that now why would anyone listen to a guy? What do you mean? But anybody can look up there and go, what does that mean? And then they're in. And then they're fucking in, right? Eyes on the prize. Stay focused. Stay focused on the dream. I'm sorry. You're right. The one was an apocalyptic verse from the New Testament referring to the passage, the heavens shall pass away with a great noise and the elements shall melt with the fervor heat. Now the cops have got to be down below going. Okay. So I don't think we can talk to this guy. The proverb game just took a turn for the worse. I don't know if you looked that one up. So he's posting shit from Revelation. So should we just shoot it? It's Revelation stuff. So first we just drop a bomb and fuck the maid. What do we want to do? So Rainbow Man then threw a smoke bomb at police, which is just, it's just a smart smoke bomb. Yeah. Like I had smoke bombs. Yeah. They just smell and they smoke a little bit. Honestly, like if you're going to do that, you know how the cops, the cops will be like, shoot him. It's a bomb. Like you shouldn't be fucking dancing around with this shit. R.J.R.R. The Baptist minister from the show today in Bible prophecy. Oh, the one who inspired him, who then got to know him over the years. That's horrible news for him. Came down to try to persuade Rainbow Man to surrender. And what we'll call the greatest conversation ever. Rainbow Man, can you hear me? I realize the days are numbered, but this is not the answer. Why am I talking like Bill Connery? Can you imagine him getting that call? I mean, he's probably told everything. He's like, I'm sorry, can you set up one more time? Just to be clear, Rainbow Man's lit a fire at the hotel and he has a gun. You need to come down there and try to help. Okay. All right. Let me just kiss my wife goodbye. Rainbow Man's demands were simple. He wanted a three hour press conference on all the broadcasting stations to make his last splash. So obviously that's easy. Next. Yeah, the networks are like, sure. Three hours? Absolutely. Oh yeah. You know what we care about? Hotel mates. Yeah. Not a lot of those. ABC's response, go fuck yourself. Yeah. Yeah. At 5 45 p.m. So this has been now going on like eight, eight or nine hours. It's a long fucking day of Rainbow Man. He's threatened to kill the hostage. Rainbow Man has threatened to kill the hostage. Yeah. He says he's going to kill the hostage and he says he's going to start shooting at jetliners as they pass because they go right over the hotel. So they're like, okay, so we just got to fucking, we got to go in this time. So SWAT uses flashbang grenades and storms the room. He was like smoke bombs. Cool. Where'd you get them? He was the dude in a remove. The hostage was locked in the bathroom the whole time. In the room, police found a loaded 45 automatic handgun, two full ammunition clips, 47 live rounds of ammunition, various incendiary devices, three days of food, Bible's religious tracts and poetry and a blue, red, yellow, green, purple, pink Afro wig. So they like averted what could have been just like a crazy shooting spree. Yeah, he could have. He could have gone back. Like he if he had gotten the day labors and they were not in locked in the bathroom. What was his plan with the day labors? Do we know? I think he was going to kill them. Oh my God. But for Jesus. Oh, OK. So a few hours after the incident, the police were driving Rambo Man away. So they got him and then they it's so funny. Back in that day, like they just threw him in a car with the windows down and they started to drive away. So all the reporters are like, why did you do it? Rainbow Man. It's like out of a fucking movie. They're like running up like, hey, Rambo Man, why did you do it? And he shouted to get the word out for Jesus Christ and then smiled. I hope he was still wearing the wig. He wasn't. He's just a bald guy at that point. Rambo Man explained that he did it because, you know, the member of the rainbow, it's up in the room. Yeah, you didn't have to. Exactly. He's got backup wigs. I bet his house, he's just like Tommy laying around. It's like, honestly, it's like when Batman opens his closet. I just just like, Batsuit, Batsuit, Batsuit, Batsuit. Yeah, he jumps on a pole and slides down into the rainbow wig room. It's just all fur and loincloths. And his father's a day laborer who wants to go. It's Alfred. Signora, go today. No, Alfred. Okay, Alfred. No, not today, Alfred. Rambo Man explained that he did it because Armageddon was near and he wanted to alert the media. Taylor, the Baptist minister, said he meant well, but he took the wrong approach. I mean, that's pretty right on. I think that's, yeah. That's fair. Fair. Fair statement. It's got to be amazing if your rainbow man is when you're in jail and it's seven days later and you're like, fuck! Oh, wait. He went to trial. Oh, boy. Rambo Man was charged with eight felony counts, three of those were for hostage taking. Before the trial, he was offered a plea deal of 12 years. But he refused because he thought he could get the message out during the trial. Oh, my God. This is not Bozo the Clown, the L.A. district attorney said. He is a very sick and dangerous man. Could you imagine saying that as a officer of the court? Like, standing up and saying this is not Bozo the Clown. First thing we got to do. Bad clown! Very bad clown! Again, do not hire this one for parties. Now, miss, I see you smiling at him like cutesy. Don't do that. He's a very bad clown. He almost murdered a maid. July 13th, 1993, he was found guilty on all eight counts and sentenced to life in prison. 12 years might have been a good idea. He now feels like he should have taken the deal. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. The L.A. Times discovered Rambo Man had contemplated killing President Bush and took steps toward assassinating then presidential candidate Bill Clinton. According to district attorney David Conn, Roland purchased the.45 caliber handgun at the same time of Clinton's visit to L.A. He went to the Bonaventure where Clinton was staying with plans to shoot him but did not carry it out because of heavy security. So he got there and he's like, oh man, they actually guard. They're not fucking around, are they? They guard the it's almost like it's almost like some sort of presidential candidate has been shot in a hotel in L.A. They're making it really hard to murder this guy. Maybe if I just put on my rainbow wig and let me saunter on through. Excuse me, man, I need the president. Oh, can I meet the president of America? I'm fucking crazy. He's now in Folsom Prison for Life. He spends his time writing letters to religious groups and media outlets about the rapture. He is sorry he did it. Rainbow Man is sorry he did it at the wrong time. He thinks he should have waited. Right. He jumped the gun. He jumped the fucking gun. Yeah. A lot, it turns out. Yeah. He thinks his story is a magnificent story because he found Jesus. Yeah, it's a great story. So if you if you really look at the everything that happened at the end, there's a man filled with light. Yeah. Big deal. Right. Big deal. Someone was saved. This guy found Christ. That's what matters. That's all that fucking matters. It doesn't matter. I mean, he just look, he was excited. Yep. He was excited to spread the message. When did we start punishing enthusiasm? When they were going to murder the president. But aside from that. Can you imagine if a guy in a rainbow wig, if a guy in a rainbow wig shot the president. Rainbow Man, if Rainbow Man shot the president. That would be amazing. It would be horrible. Like how would you, the New York Post would just be like, I have the headline puns. A lot of gold. That's a leprechaun. That's the thing with the rainbow. No, that's true. Yeah. Okay. For a second I thought I was out of my mind. The president's under the rainbow now. Rainbow Man murdered the president. It could have been. I'm glad it wasn't. I mean, it could have been because once he just saw security. He's like, oh, they actually protect this guy. Oh, it's not just him. I thought he was just eating waffles alone in the corner. He's got a bunch of guys around him, huh? That's how this works. Okay. Good God. I'm going to crack a book next time. I can't believe you've never heard of Rainbow Man. I've never heard of it. I'm so glad I have. I mean, living the life of watching it all transpire. That was when I was starting out as a comedian, just remembering like, oh my God, Rainbow Man did what? Again, a movie. I can't believe it's never been turned into a movie. It should be like at least a TV movie. Well, someone did the documentary, but that's it. You can't even find it anywhere. I tried to find it and I couldn't find it. It's probably good. How could it not be good? It couldn't be bad. You'd have to be interested. Even watching like the Daredevil shit from last week, like, you know, there's a lot of like parts that aren't that exciting, but it's just in general, you're just like, what the fuck? What a weird time. Yeah. Let me show you a picture. Oh, yes. There we go. Show him to me. Oh, I'm so excited. Oh, whoa. Oh, shit. So he's still got the big facial hair. Wow. What are those mutton chops? Like, what the fuck are those? It's not even mutton chops. They're like out of control mutton chops. Wow. He is out of his tits. Yeah, he's out of his fucking mind. He's out of his fucking mind. This guy's behind him. That trucker hat's on. Yeah, this guy's behind him. Jesus Christ. Wow. I'm glad I got to see him. That's really... Yeah, I'll put that up online. That's really weird. Peace. One man's journey. Another man's dollop. Christ saves. That's what we learned here today. Well, it's like, yeah, Christ saves dot dot dot not maids. Not what? Maids. You know what? I'm the stickler on the maid thing, sure. It's okay to kill maids. Yep. For... For God. Well, for Christ. Yep. Christ did not like maids. Yeah, and he thinks the Knicks is like the Greek Coliseum. Oh, he's not down with the Knicks at all. He gets it. He has the right perspective. I'm going to write him a letter. Oh, we should write Rainbow Man a letter. Let's write him a letter. I wonder if it would get to him. I bet it would. Dear... may I call you Rainbow? Dear Rainbow Man. Signed, Antichrist. Oh, fuck. All right. All right. Rainbow Man signing off. Rainbow Man. Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollop Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22nd through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv, August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there. Or join me the next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas, if that doesn't work for you. Join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club, August 27th.