 Hello, you're listening to The Dalip. This is a bilingual American history podcast. Each week I read a story from American history to my friend. Gareth Reynolds, il connait ne pas le star. I used to know a little bit. Yep, not anymore. I wonder what happened. Well, I think what I just saw going into you was second ago, my... Hey man, don't be a cap about this man. Alright, I guess the wall. God, you want to look who to do? I'll do one bump. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Stay okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become the tickling plot, guys. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I said done, my friend. No. No. I said done. Girl. August 13th, 1932. Okay. Tony... Oh, this already did a fucking spell correction. Did it change the next word to Danza? I'm just going to pretend like that's what it is, but I think this is... Tony Ketitsis was born in Indianapolis, Indiana. Okay. He had three brothers... Tits to his friends. Tits to his friends. He had three brothers and a sister. Their father, a Greek immigrant, owned a neighborhood store. Okay. During the summer, all three kids would sell ice cream in the Ben Davis and Garden City areas of the west side of the city. Cute little store. Yep. So far it's pretty good, right? Adorable. Love it. Relatable. He went to Ben Davis High School where he was an excellent student. The principal of Ben Davis... Did I turn this on? I thought so. Did you not? I did. Oh my God. The leg move you just did. It was pretty hot, right? Dude, you just did the can-can. I did a lot of ballet in high school. It shows, man. I did. I was a ballet major in college at UC San Barbara. Well, I was plies to see it. Oh boy. The principal of Ben Davis said all the... Oh, it's Kiritzis. Kiritzis kids were solid and respected. Another teacher said all the kids were hardworking. After graduating, Tony served in the army for two years. He was a small arms instructor for West Point cadets. That's just when he dealt with, you know... Tiny arms. Yeah, short appendages. Like... Oh man, I can't remember his name. Who? Niles Barkley. Like Niles Barkley. Sure. Oh, what? Who's CeeLo? CeeLo. Yeah, exactly. CeeLo at West Point. He has little tiny arms. He's like a little dinosaur, like a Triceratops. Well, and I was thinking about this the other day. He came under allegations for rape. Yeah, he did. And then he went on... Well, he got fired because of that. And he was just like, okay, so hypothetically speaking, someone's sleeping and you do something. Is that crazy? It was something to that effect. And everyone was like, you need to delete this. It's not crazy, but it's illegal. Yeah. Sergeant Ronald Beasley of the Marion County Sheriff's Department said Tony was a man who worked hard, but also had a hot temper. Okay. Seriously hot temper. He's turning on. At some point, Tony became the owner of a mobile home park at the age of just 26. Living the dream. Yep. One of the tenants... Not a lot of weird problems you got to deal with in that environment. No, it's a good thing to have if you have a temper. Yeah, for sure. Definitely get a mobile home park. Absolutely. Manage 28 mobile home families. If you go to anger counseling, if you go to one of those programs, they'll say buy a mobile home park. Get a mobile home park. One of the tenants recalled that Tony would carry a shotgun around the property and he said Tony had a temper, which is... I'm sort of hearing... Temper's coming back again. Great combo also. I'm sort of hearing that. And then we're also new information. There's a shotgun. Yeah. Okay. Tony would put five mile per hour signs on the streets around the mobile home park and using the shotgun would stop people who were breaking the speed limit. Interesting. Okay. So that's how he would enforce the speed limit laws. Sure. Sure. Which was... I don't know if you've ever driven five miles an hour. It's really hard to do. It's hard to do it so slow. It's hard to do. Yeah. Cars are against it. Yeah. It's basically stopped. It's basically stopped. It's just slowed down doing nothing. Tony also would only allow one distributor to sell heating oil at the mobile home park and only one furnace repairman into the mobile home park. After a while, other repairmen and oil men would not even go to the park when a tenant called. When Tony was around 34, a police sergeant, police sergeant Love, who had been a high school friend of Tony's, said that Tony shot at his brother twice after they argued about money. He was just selling ice cream a minute ago. Yeah. Well, it started out great. It's like when you watch Intervention and they show the baby pics. Oh, that's exactly what we just did. Exactly what we just did. No one was injured in the shooting. Sergeant Love arrested Tony for it and charges... Sergeant, do you know how many times Sergeant Love showed up to a place and people were like, we didn't order a stripper. He's like, no, God damn it. No, I'm... That's my fucking name. You're under arrest. Oh, am I? Okay. Oh, all right. I'll be on the bed. All right. Arrest me, officer. Okay. This isn't very sexy. My arms hurt. Okay. I'm just going to put this shotgun in my mouth. Right. So the charges were eventually dropped for that shooting. Okay. Right. In 1941, Deputy Sheriff William Newman found Tony had cornered two men from the Citizen Gas and Coke Utility. Tony was armed with an axe. He was upset that they had come onto his property. But they were probably going there to fix something. The two men were installing a gas line that ran under his trailer. Yeah. Again. So he... No files were charged. Why are charges not being filed? His anger was said to be, quote, fearsome, quick, and heedless of consequences. Jesus. It's a bad description. Terrible. I mean, you're just basically being like, oh, he's a future murderer. For sure. Another police report said that Tony had chased his sister with an axe. And again, he was arrested. But even with all these situations of weapons led to arrest, Tony was never convicted of a crime. So at this point, he feels like invincibility. Well, I mean, how would you feel after all that? Like it's time to use my axe. That's what I'm talking about. But others said he was a saint. Tony, a lifetime bachelor, as you can imagine. Because he was running hot. You know what I mean? Too hot for the ladies. Well, and also, I mean, once you got an empire like that, you don't want to split it. That's what I'm talking about. You know? Tony's living in an apartment complex. And 67 year old Gladys Ellis, who lived across the hall, said he was great. Quote, he's the nicest person that anyone could ever hope to meet. One winter during a very cold weather, Tony offered many times to do Mrs. Ellis's shopping for her. One policeman who was a friend of Tony said, quote, he's friendly and outgoing. Another cop who knew him said he has a wild temper. Right? One could say Tony runs a little hot and cold. Yeah. Hot and cold Tony. But in situations like that, when you hear enough crazy shit about someone, you're like, oh, I just don't know them well enough. Hey, what do you want? You want a hot Tony? You want a hot Tony? You want a cold Tony? You want a hot and cold Tony? I'll take a hot Tony. How about hot and cold Tony? We got a hot and cold special today. Hot and cold. Tony's got a hot and cold. Hot Tony? Cold Tony? I just said a hot Tony. All right. Who's the man with the axe? One hot Tony. Who's the axe man? That's cold Tony. OK. Who's the man with the axe? That's hot Tony. He's also got the axe. OK. I don't want a Tony unless it's for a musical. That's what it is. Well. Tony fell on hard times in the 70s. He had not worked for a while. He was now just living off his rental properties. OK. So that's good. But that sounds OK. It's not the worst thing in the world. Yeah. A lot of people do that. After 1977, Tony owned 17 acres on the northwest corner of a Lindhurst Drive and Rockville Road, which had greatly increased in value over the years. And Tony now wanted to turn it into a strip mall. Oh, God. Well, I mean, why not? Yeah. This is when strip malls weren't as horrible as they are now. Yeah, that's true. But he was also very behind on his payments to the bank for the property. OK. He was trying to negotiate a big sale to developers hoping that they would solve the issue. He'd be able to pay off the bank, right? But he thought the mortgage company was steering buyers away from his property by saying Tony would be a risky investment. Tony thought the mortgage company wanted to foreclose to get their hands on the now valuable property. And when Tony gets hot, things get axy. He owed $130,000 on the mortgage and the mortgage company, Meridian Mortgage, had given him many breaks. So he's been behind. They've been letting payments. They've been giving him breaks like month after month being like, all right, you get us next month. But early in 1977, the company dropped the hammer and decided to foreclose. On the morning of February 8, 1977, Tony made an appointment to discuss his mortgage at Meridian. So I don't want to be too presumptuous, but I'm assuming he's going to be pretty pissed. I love the idea of making an appointment to go in and rage. All right. Wednesday, 10, 30. I can't then. I could do one. Can you guys do one? Two o'clock. I could do that. I look forward to it. Wednesday at two. Goodbye. I will fucking see you there. I'm going to be so mad when I get there. He walked in holding a long flower box and waited. So not a lot of people buy foreclosure flowers. That's true. Well, flower closures. People might bring their mortgage guy flowers. I don't just foreclosed. No, I know you foreclosed on me, but I saw these white roses, Larry. And my goodness. Also, what is foreclosure? Yeah, I don't know what that word means. So here, take the flowers. OK, so Richard Hall, who works there, arrived after a bit and Tony said, hey, you got a minute? They went into Hall's office. It was just down the hall. And Tony pulled the sawed off shotgun out of the box. Then slam. These were not flowers. I went to the wrong florist and you're going to pay. And then he slammed Hall against the wall. Skip Hess, a reporter for the Indianapolis News, was talking to police chief Gene Gallagher when the chief got a call on the hotline. There's a couple of things happening here. There's just a beat reporter sitting around talking to the police chief, which is fucking very Spider-Man. And then the other thing is that they have a hotline. And a Gallagher, which is very Batman. And they do have a Gallagher, which is fruitful. When the police chief came back, he told Skip that he should go downtown. Quote, there's some guy who has a sawed off shotgun wired to another guy's head and he says he's coming out. Take him off speakerphone. Tony put a wire around Hall's neck, down the barrel of the gun, and around his finger. So it's around the neck. So a wire runs around his neck. Like a noose around the neck. And then down the barrel of the gun. So the gun is pointed right at the back of his head. Down the barrel of the gun and then wraps it around his finger, which is then around the trigger. But is Tony in control of that situation or it's just the dude is... Tony's in control of it. But if Tony is shot and he falls, the gun goes off and kills Hall. Holy shit. So he's sniper proof. Right. Right. Okay. And the marathon's running this day. No, I'm kidding. Movies are real life. Tony called this a dead man's line. Before Tony went outside, he called the police to inform them what he was up to and about the dead man's line. So he's like, I'm going out. If you shoot me, this guy's going to die. Right. Tony then walked out of Meridian Mortgage with the shotgun pointed at the back of Hall's head. Oh my God. Tony was a burly little man with sideburns. He was wearing a short-leaved shirt even though it was negative five degrees out. Hall was taller, slimmer with the receding blonde hair. And as they made their way down the street, cops were coming from all directions. With their sirens blaring, they'd stop their cars and jump out and then not really know what to do. Yeah. They're like, yeah, fuck. Ah, fucking what? Sometime you'll stop. Tony let them know about the dead man's line when they came up. Tony and Hall walked down Washington Street. What just a nice jaunt. So what do you do for fun? Sorry about all this. Not this. I like miniature golf. All right. Don't complain about this. I'm sorry. Okay. Then they turned and walked four blocks along the busiest street in downtown Indianapolis. You're going to love the place we're going. By the way, this is how I get everyone to eat with me. Oh yeah. I just want to have a meal. Yeah, that's it. I'm paying. Well, look, I know the foreclosure is messed up, but I just really want to take you for dim sum. I'm sorry. I'm sorry that I want someone to talk to. Oh, I'm, oh, hey, I'm sorry. I wanted to take you out for a bite asshole. Wow. Police started running ahead to Shoeway pedestrians and tell store owners to lock up their stores. Some cops tried to talk to Tony, but he was pretty focused on the task at hand. I do love like when like a hostage negotiate, like, cause it's never like in the movies. So it's like a lot of times a hostage negotiator. It's just like someone on the other end, like, no screw you. And hanging up. He's like, I'm sorry. I'm trying. Hey Dennis, come on. You got so much Dennis. You got so much to live for Dennis. The weird thing is, as I read many different newspapers and stuff, so many, so many cops knew him. Wow. I think it's a small community. I think it's a, like, you know, it's in Indianapolis, like I think West Indianapolis, but I think that like he grew up there. Some guys became a cop. Some guys have a fireman, but they all just kind of knew each other a little bit. Yeah. It wasn't like a big community. Right. So this, so they know that. So they know that Tony, what are you doing? Tony things seem bad. I got a problem with the mortgage company. Can I talk to you later? I think I'm going to get the foreclosure reversed right now. I don't, okay. This is what it said to do on WikiHow. Yeah. So that is a good point though. Like I guess what is like the end game here probably isn't a foreclosure reversal. What is the end game? My question. So besides warning people ahead, many police just started following in a big pack, walking behind Tony and hauled down the street on foot. Some had their guns out. Some didn't. Tony would stop occasionally and jerk all around warning the police. Man, I swear to God, I don't even want to, I'm not doing a bit. When you said jerk, I was like, no way. Are you about to say off? No. I was like, I thought it was just about to take a crazy turn. Oh, if he started jerking them off in the street? Not, not, not that Tony took jerk off breaks on this little- Oh no, that would be super horrible. No, you just made a very bad dollop. Okay. Wait, what? The mayor, Bill Hudnut was sitting in his office when he looked out the window and saw Tony parading hauled down the street with a shotgun strapped to his head. Another normal day. Hey, Indianapolis, I love ya. Yeah, the best. Tony slipped on the ice and fell. Oh shit. What? But Hall fell with him. But still. If Hall had not fallen, the gun would have gone off and killed him instantly. Oh my God. All the cops quickly whipped out their guns. For a moment, it looked like Tony was pulling a pistol out of his pocket and all hell was going to break loose. But Tony was just rearranging a pistol in his pocket after falling. Thank God. The two men got back up, I assume very carefully. Yeah. Okay. One gun or just three? I'll go first. No, we should go at the same time. One two on three or go one, two, three, go. Wait. No. Last words were waiting. Wait. They walked for a bit. Then Tony saw a cop in his police car and told the cop to get out. He climbed in the car with Hall and told Hall to drive the car. Behind them, a car crashed into a telephone pole because the driver was watching the madness. Some guy is driving by. He sees the guy with the shotgun getting into the car. He sees all the cops standing around and he just drives into a telephone pole. He was an extra. That's what he's supposed to do. Then Tony and Hall sped off with police cars chasing them at 80 miles per hour down Washington Street. This dude made an appointment. For this. He made an appointment for this. He was like, man, Wednesday 245 is going to get nuts. Shit's going to go off. That's what I'm going to attach a trip wire to a man. What are you doing tomorrow, Tony? Big plans. Big fucking plans. I got nothing in the morning, but the afternoon I'm swamped. Holy shit. Tony told Hall to drive to his apartment building at Crestwood Village. They got there at 9.35 a.m. It's a nice neighborhood, sir. Man, this is good. They got there at 9.35 a.m. and about 75 cops arrived seconds later. Tony and Hall went up to his third floor corner apartment. From the apartment, Tony called the cops and said, quote, I'm ready to die. The dude with the gun, Hall's like, hey man. Can you do you want to talk about stuff? The windows of the apartment had wires strung on them. This is apparently to make the cops think there were bombs. Tony said the apartment was wired with dynamite. But if a dude has this setup, I mean, you're going to be like, he probably does. He probably has dynamite for sure. Everyone then hunkered down. Residents were removed from the apartment building. Andy and Abel came and set up a bank of telephones for the media in one apartment. Since taking hostages wasn't really a big thing yet, the Indianapolis PD did not have any hostage negotiators. That's going to be fun for someone to learn on the fly. So hey, what are you doing? I mean, what are you doing? But like, what? How? How are you? What are you? Hey, what's your favorite color? What? Mine's red. Not red. Mine's not red. What? Oh, so I'll be I'm going to call you right back. Um, oh my gosh. I don't think until Tony's like, dude, you got this. You got this. You're okay, man. You'll be all right. No, no, no. I can't. Ask me what I want. Ask me what I want. I don't even know. Ask me what I want. Just say, just say. Okay, okay, okay. Hold on. Hold on. Let me get a sip. Hold on. Let me get a sip. Go ahead. Come on. You'll be all right. Just say what do you want. Okay. Tony, what is it? What do you want? What do you want? I don't know what I want, motherfucker. Oh my God. Oh my God. Now you're doing good. You're doing good. Okay. That's just how I'm supposed to do my part. Right, right, right, right. You have so much, so much to give. Yes, yes, a tremendous amount to give to people. Don't do it, Tony. Okay, okay, okay. I'm so drunk. I didn't go to any of that. It wasn't fun. In 1977, hostage situations were fairly unheard of. So, there was no standard procedure for this. No rules to follow. That meant Tony got on the phone and started calling friends and other people. And his friends were also ringing him up to talk because they saw what was happening on the news. Tony! Hey, Tony, I heard you're walking down the street with a shotgun. Yeah, I saw a tripwire on a guy who foreclosed on my house. Get the fuck out of here. I can't. It's been a wild day. Oh my God. Did you watch the game? I can. I didn't get to watch it. I was doing this with this guy. It was a whole day. I'm hoping to see highlights later. What are you doing later? You want to get together and have a beer? I mean, I don't know. If I get out of this, yeah, for sure. Yeah. Let me do this. Let me see how the day plays out. Ideally, I'll wrap this up around 9, 10, and then let me know. I'll let you know. We can meet up. All right, so Bobby might want to come, but he's got an old lady. He's holding her with an axe. Okay. That might work out, though. That still might work out. I'd love to see Bobby. I'm just hanging out having a Schlitz. Okay, well, we'll do most of the talking. Okay. So his friends are calling him up, and then strangers started to call to chat because Tony's number was listed in the phone book. Oh, that is... I mean, how could you not? How could you not? Is he answering him? Yeah. Hello? Hey! What are you doing? Don't call here. I'm trying to... I'm doing business. Oh, okay. Sorry about that, Hall. Hello? Hey! Are you the dude all the... Goodbye. Sorry. I should have gone unlisted. I didn't. Now the cops were getting busy signals when they were trying to call Tony. It's just his phone's going constantly... It's like a bunch of idiots calling up. It's similar with the OJ thing. It's like they were trying to chase him, but there were too many people in the streets like, no, juice, go! Go! People are calling him a bababooey. Yeah. Come on. Finally, the cops cut the phone and had a new phone number assigned to Tony's apartment. They're like, all right, we've got to be able to talk to this guy. Hey, by the way, sir, we changed your number just for the record. Oh my God. Grable quickly learned Tony had no idea what he wanted. He had no plan. Oh my God. His only plan was to get Hall to his apartment, and that was done. Well... After listening, Grable thought Tony had a legitimate complaint against the mortgage company. I'm sure he did. Well, think of how bullshit mortgages are. I mean, nowadays they're worse, but they were always inclined towards BF. But, of course, Tony wasn't handling it properly. It's slightly extreme. I think we can agree that there's not really a right person in this one, maybe. And it's certainly not Tony. The lead prosecutor for Marion County was in California at a law seminar. Good. So the next guy... Guys, I got nine messages. What's up? What are you guys doing out there? My phone is blowing up. So the next guy in charge was the chief deputy prosecutor, David Rimstilt. He was 27 years old. Oh my God. He was so young that no one realized he was calling the shots at the scene. The prosecutor's office... We just assumed you were three kids in a policeman's outfit. Joe kept saying, tickle him. Yeah. He kept saying tickle him and watched them all run out. Yeah. Look, you drop a handful of tootsie rolls, you watch. That policeman's uniform evaporates and we got happy kids. The prosecutor's office actually brought out an older guy who wasn't in charge to put on TV to give the appearance a mature guy was in charge. Oh, that's good when you're casting people. Do you want to play man in charge? Because this adolescent isn't the good face for the operation. I'm a degenerate. Okay, here we go. You're a cop. Ladies and gentlemen, we're proud to introduce the man who's running the scene here and we're very confident in him. Officer Jan Iter. Hey. So... What is your plan to stop the hostage situation? Probably just try to clean it up. There'll be no more questions. Can we talk for a second? Yep. Someone threw up. Will you clean it? But the 27-year-old guy is now the guy who's put in charge to talking to Tony. He's talking to Tony, the 27-year-old guy. But it was hard to understand Tony because he was so out of control with anger. Then he started making demands like he wanted $5 million. Authorities pretended to... He's just kind of Dr. Eviling it. A little bit, yeah. Okay. Authorities pretended to negotiate, but were just trying to wait him out. They felt like time was on their side. So they're like, all right, the guy's in the apartment. What are you going to fucking do? How much can he have in there to get by? It's still a very treacherous situation. Oh, it's all fucked up. Can they see him? They can't see him, no. Tony's brother Jimmy showed up and brought a couple of friends. Hey, look at the party. Hey, Tony, what are you having a fuck? What's going on here? Who's your buddy? Who's your leash pal? Why do you got any guys out here? You wanted some beer? Hey, I brought a six-pack tone. So I guess with your buddy, now that's just one each, and then two of us get two. Fuck. We all three of us could have had two. Well, anyway, it's good to meet you, Hall. Well, if you shoot that guy, then we each get more. Yeah, I mean, I don't want to... That's a thing. I don't want to jump on that. No, I'm just saying stuff on the table. That's all I'm saying. I don't want to jump on that bandwagon, but I think you might have a point. He's gone, we all get two. Yeah, this is about... I mean, mostly I think this is about beer. I'll get another six. I'll let him live. Really? No, you're right. Kill him. Let's drink these. So Jimmy and his friends tried to talk Tony out of what he was doing, but he was too angry. Tony then demanded Meridian Mortgage make a public apology to him and one in writing. The company had to admit they cheated him, that they had conspired to take his land. He also wanted his mortgage debt wiped clean, and he asked for immunity from arrests and, of course, immunity from civil liability for the kidnapping. The guy has a shotgun to his head, and he's learning that if he lives, he can't sue him. Right. So I will say for on the fly thinking, the last two are pretty great demands. Not bad. Not bad. They're great demands. Yeah. Clearly this guy's run a mobile home park. And also, I can never get in trouble for any of this. This guy's run a mobile home park because he's dealt with a lot of lawsuits. Because I think the number one phrase on a mobile home park... Well, the two top phrases in a mobile home park are, my brother's a lawyer, and I'm going to sue you. But also, like... Yeah, all right. Anyway, never mind. Then at some point during the first day, Tony called veteran newsman Fred Heckman in his office and started talking to him. Heckman. Heckman was a well-respected newsman who had been covering Indiana forever. He was the town's main... I've seen it all. He's the town's main news anchor. So he's like the old fucking guy that's been around forever that everyone in town knows. Right. Grew up with him. Right. People trust him on the news, but then you hear behind the scenes... Oh, yeah. He's jerking off goats. Yeah, yeah. He showed an intern his penis or something. Everyone knew Fred. Pretty soon, Tony was saying he would only talk to Fred. I'll only talk to Fred. Exactly like that. Now even though it was against all his journalistic instincts, Fred was acting as a mediator between the cops and Tony. The first rule of news is that you report it, you don't become it. But Fred didn't seem to have a choice. Fred's life was in the balance and Tony would only talk to him. Tony now started thinking that he and Fred were pals. Oh, boy. For Fred, he's like, ah, guys, he's making plans for the weekend. Fuck, Jesus, he just keeps talking. It's just... Fuck, man. Nobody knows... Nobody knows me like you, Fred. I just... We've been through it all, pal. But, uh... Okay. You're the best. You're my rock. I don't know where I'd be without you, but man, you're the only one getting me through this, I'll tell you that. What's your last name again? You're just... You're always there. So, he had watched Fred for all his life, every night. Oh my God. It's amazing. He's been watching Fred forever. He knows he... He knows Fred. He does. He knows Fred. And Fred's trustworthy. Fred's not going to fuck with anybody. Fred's not the fucking mortgage company or the cops. Fred's a fucking stand-up guy. It's Fred. Fred's like, ah, yes. That's right, Tony. We go way back, friend. I don't know what to do. Fred was a major figure in the Indianapolis community, but Fred was then taken off the story by WIBC-TV because he had become part of the story so he couldn't cover it. Journalism, that's rule one. You can't become part of the story. You can't cover the story you're part of. Yeah, but he's... Okay. Fred was very angry, but he understood. Damn it. People at the station said it was like firing their boss off a story. Then day one ended and night came. That evening, a representative of Meridian Mortgage, Clifford Chapman, read an apology to Tony on a local TV news broadcast. He was watching the game instead. In it, the company admitted everything Tony wanted them to admit. After he was done, Chapman was questioned by reporters and he denied the company did anything, saying he was just trying to get Hall out alive. Good. Do that now. Say that part now. Do that perfect now. Don't keep up appearances for the sake of saving his life. Now's good. Immediately say that. All right. Just so to be clear, it's all our fault. Now I'll take questions. How is it your fault? It's all our fault. Good. All right. Any other questions? Why did you do this to Tony? He made us and we want to make sure he's alive. I'm taking him still. Are we still alive? We did nothing. Thanks guys. Thanks for coming out. Meridian Mortgage was a family business. Richard Hall was the son of Meridian's chairman, ML Hall. Richard's brother, Jack, also worked there. ML Hall erased Tony's debt and told Chapman to say, or do whatever was needed to end the hostage situation with Richard alive. Yeah, but yeah. Okay. I mean, okay. Yeah. On the second day, news media came from all over the country. As I said, there were a lot of hostage situations. So this is a big deal. Right? The entire city was now watching their TVs and listening to the radio. A behavior modification specialist from the FBI Training Academy came to help deal with Tony's crazy moods. Big shot landing in Indianapolis swinging his shit in. I know about moods. What's going on? Um, well, he seems to be in an okay place. Okay, first of all, this guy's mood is that he's a pussy. Can we get a different guy? Why is the negotiator crying? I don't know. Okay, my mood is now angry. My professional opinion is that my mood is now on the edge of hitting something. I'm gonna go get some of those hash browns and come back. And the thing I might hit is the pussy. So great to meet you, man. Somehow Tony's new phone number was leaked and people. What? This is before Twitter. People start calling him again. Man. Tony, you back up and run it down. The cops were forced to cut the line again because they couldn't get through it. Just to let you know, we've changed your number again. Now listen, Tony didn't. Tony didn't know what his new phone number was, so he couldn't call people and tell them to call him back or give it out. So it had to been someone probably from the phone company that gave out the phone number. Okay, or or a cop on the inside or the other. But they couldn't stop Tony from calling people, which he continued to do. The police started taping Tony's phone calls and listening to him talking to other people to see if he was up or down. I'm excited. When he was on a high, the cops left him alone. And when he was sad, they tried to talk him into giving up. They started graphing Tony's moods on a board in the command post. There's any way to get this ring on him. We'll save ourselves a lot of grief. I would say 80% of people know what you're talking about. Well, now maybe maybe 20. Yeah, less might know. Let less than that 50% of people know what you're talking about. Yeah, who knows? 70s? I know I remember them from when I was 80s. Uh, yeah. And I think on I think 90s. A mood ring was a thing you put on your finger and it would change colors supposedly based on your mood. And there was a key where you would go and you would be like, Oh, it's green. I am a little pissed off. I'd be like, it's red. I'm angry. You'd be like purple. Yeah, I am in a good mood. Thanks ring for telling me what I am feeling. Technology was great in the 70s. Yeah. So there's taping his phone calls when he's in a high they're doing it all in the low they're doing on graphs, which is fucking awesome. bomb smelling. I'd love to hear his highs. What is he just gabbing? Just amazing. It's been good to catch up Jordan. We got to do this again. Oh my god. This is so great. Meanwhile, Hall's like, I don't want to die. I don't want to die. You're bothering me out. That is so messed up that the whole time Hall is just sitting there with a gun to his head. He can't even just have a conversation because Tony's like, sorry to be this guy. I got to do two more though. Sorry. I hate to be this guy. Fuck. bomb spelling police dog sniff Tony's car and army demolition experts told the police that there had been a large amount of explosives in the car recently. Okay. And that triggering devices could be seen on the windows of the apartment. So this was obviously a concern for trying a rescue. Yeah. In the apartment. Times were tough for Hall. Tony had a weight in the middle of the apartment, which he would chain Hall to if he didn't want to keep holding the shotgun to the back of Hall's head. So they're obviously having a lot of fun. Right. So the weight would just be like if he moved. I think the weight. I don't even know if the gum was on the weight was just he would tie him to the weight. Okay, I thought you made a tiny apparatus to the weight so that if he moved the weight would almost act as a body. I don't think so. But who the fuck knows? Tony asked Hall if he wanted any donuts. Hall said no, just the life again. Life would be great again. It's gonna donut take it to live. Yeah. Hall said no quote. I don't eat donuts. I have a weight problem and I don't want to gain any pounds. Oh, my that honestly breaks my heart. Wait, are they Krispy Kreme? That is. Yeah. To be like, in this diet. If there's any time to have a donut. It's your cheat day pal. Dude, that is. You know what my wife would kill me? Because I'm on a total diet. I'm on a you know what the paleo is? Yeah, I'm just doing the paleo right now. I actually do. I don't eat right now. I tell you what, though. The thing is, if I have one donut, I can't stop eating donuts. I know. I know I might die right now and everything. But I did. That's just a road. I don't want to go down. Yeah, I can't. So I can't. Is that a glaze? What is that? So any other sustenance would be nice. No, the absence of donuts or nothing. I'm going to tie you to this weight again. Fuck. I'm really glad I took your appointment. I feel I feel good about you know what I feel good about not having the donut. I feel good about it. They're all gone. Fuck. I should have had a donut. They're really good. Tony I'm going to call nine people. So here's this even better. So after Hall says, you know, I don't want to get any weight. Tony responds. Don't worry about it. We'll just give it. We'll just get an extra palm bearer. We'll get an extra pallbearer. I said palm didn't I? Sorry. Yeah, that's when a tree dies. He corrects. That's a terrible. Well, just that is a terrible response. We'll just get an extra pallbearer. That's a terrible response. That's the worst response ever. I'm trying to take care of myself over here. Look, if you really want me to have a donut, I will. My God. That's awful. In negotiations, they were offering Tony whatever he asked for. They went back and forth over the amount of cash. They figured the more they got him to say yes, the more in control he would think he was. People in the federal government, however, were not happy about the negotiations. And they didn't want the process. I had improvised. Yeah, and keep going. We're the second city negotiators. We're side of negotiations. So the federal government didn't want the prosecutors office to negotiate with him at all and certainly not to give him what he wanted. But the guys on the scene disagreed. Marion County prosecutors then offered Tony full immunity from prosecution if he released Hall. Yeah, yeah, take it. Yeah, take with take it. The US Attorney General butted in and said quote, tell Mr. Caritas to give up and trust his government. All the reporters on scene laughed. Yeah, trust your government. On the morning of day three. A shock under your head for two days. Yeah, I did. Yeah, I mean, it just has to be total. So the morning of day three, the cops and live. I mean, the the pallbearer answer is all you're thinking about. Yeah, that's it. And the fact that you didn't eat the donut. Yeah, yeah, for sure. Fuck the fucking donut. Right? God damn it. So in the morning of day three, the cops in the apartment across the hall were ordered to fry up some bacon and open the door. And they opened a window. They wanted Tony to think about getting a good meal. I mean, they're they're all cartoon pie windowsill theorem. That that's exactly what they did. So once we know that the the smoke is entering there, we'll see the stink marks. And what will happen is he'll probably float out nose first enamored with the scent. Yeah, though I am I am one of from one of the very first hostage negotiations. I could tell you some things we did. We made him think he was getting the moon. We did not rush in. We we we we graphed his moods. And we made some really, really nice bacon. And what we ended up doing was we ended up opening a restaurant next door. And we cooked constant. So we're making money. We're turning we're turning hostages into cash. And that's why we're here today. Welcome to hostages for cash. I'm Louie Languelly and I'm gonna make you rich. What the name again is Louie Languelly. Okay. Louie Languelly. Yeah, who else would it be? Could have been Larry. Yeah. Oh, it was Larry. I think it was Louie. It was a little bit. It could have been Larry. Ah, jeez. We're okay. Yeah. So. So then, then they called them up and started talking about a good meal and then talk and they kept talking about him about being outside to get him. They wanted to start thinking about being outside. So they start talking about parks and it's not working. Really shocking. At one point, Tony asked if the 5 million he was getting could be deducted from his income tax. That's not how that's not how money works at all. I'm just worried I'm gonna get screwed on my taxes. And when you're head at this point, I like you know what? I got one problem. I know you say you're gonna give me 5 million. But I got one problem I'm thinking of and that's like, what about my taxes? Like how much get a little less tension on the road from the way? How much? But how much? Hey, Hall, are you a tax guy too? You just a mortgage guy? Yeah. What do you think I can get this like? What do you think I'm paying on $500 is a tremendous amount. I just I just take it please take it. What do you think? I'm what do you got to put some aside and like I'll be honest. They'll screw you. Damn it. Did you say screw me? They'll screw you taxes. Damn it. Did you fucking say screw me? Screw you taxes on your taxes. I'm gonna pull your fucking head off. No, no, no, no. Nope. Are they having are they having fireworks at the Dodger game? Yeah, the the Dyers one you can see Jose. Oh, is that what they do when they win? They set up fireworks every night. Yeah. What a stupid team. No, I wouldn't be there if I was a cat. I'm not as a person. Yeah. So two lawyers showed up to represent Tony. They were told the immunity deal was for real. As was Tony's brother Jimmy was also told that the immunity deal was for real. Oh, it's for real. No, it's for real. It's real. It's for real immunity. Now we gave him for real immunity. Huge tone shift in your voice. No, we gave him we gave him it's real. We gave him the real stuff. immunities is the more it's the realist move. It's the top. It's the most real. It's the most you look at. It's the most real of all the munities. Hold on. This is Tony. I got a good feeling buddy. Then finally on day three came that word came that Tony was going to hold the press conference. And Tony wanted to be live on television and radio. I think he's I think he's ready. I think I think I think no one has been more ready. He's been talking to Fred all for fucking two days. Fred gave him a lot of pointers on how to handle the camera and how to look at the camera and Fred from the news told him what to do. Reporter Skip Hess had an informant in the police department who kept him up on what was going on the whole time. Now, three days in he said quote, Skip, we're getting ready to bring it bring him out. They're gonna shoot the son of a bitch. Tony's gonna come across the courtyard and there's a marksman on top of one of the buildings and if he gets the chance, he's gonna shoot Tony. Skip asked about the shotgun and the is it still he still has the gun. This whole thing he's holding a press. The two things he's holding are a press conference and a loaded gun to a man's head. Why do you think this is a dollop? He's got a skip asked about the shotgun and the cop replied, we don't know if he still has the shotgun. He still has it attached. Okay, so it's a good plan then. Yeah, he might come out without the shotgun. Alright, alright. Okay, I won't even ask. Now, the media gathered in the recreation room of the apartment building as did a bunch of cops. Then, Tony led Hall out with the shotgun still pointed at his head. Reporter Tom Cochran quote, we followed the recreation area and it was this flinny-esque scene. Here was Tony with Hall still wired to the shotgun, the chief of police and all the reporters clearly in the line of fire. It was completely silent except for Tony and the click of the cameras. The tension was immediately palpable. Hall looked absolutely fatigued. He was probably just looking at the donuts on the table in the back. He's like, **** I should have done the donuts. Oh god, I'm gonna regret this. I'm so I'm gonna cheat on diet. I might be, this might be the biggest done regret of all time when that guy shoots me. Are they allowed to ask Hall questions? That's great. Let's do that right away. Another reporter said it looked like an organism with twenty or thirty legs moving. Oh my god. Just everyone packed. Yeah. Yeah. Fred Heckman was there and and Tony was not in great shape. He'd been awake the whole time over sixty hours without sleep. Well, I think that's a given. He looked wild eyed. Oh yeah. Yes. Tony ordered the TV media to turn on all their cameras. He had written a statement that Hall was holding and was supposed to read. So Hall's his podium. Yeah. Hall's gonna be the spokesman. Spokesman. He's he's his little teleprompter. Okay. Okay. Hall. Go ahead. Next line. Go ahead and read next. Lift it higher. Slow that down a little bit. Oh, Hall's reading the thing. Yeah. Oh my god. Wait, who'd you think I was talking about? I thought Tony was reading it. No, Hall. Holding it up for him to read. Oh no. He's giving it to Hall to read his statement. This is the logic of someone who's been up for sixty hours. Yeah. But Hall now had a two inch gash in his neck from the wire so that it's just been digging away. He could barely read Hall was a mess. So Tony snatched the statement from Hall. Stupid idiot. You fucking asshole. What did we talk about? At the time, the People's Choice Awards were being broadcast. John Wayne. Tony nominated. Best shotgun to the head. Best real life TV plot. John Wayne had just won an award and was stepping up to the podium to give his speech. Broadcasters in Indiana then cut away to Tony Karitsas about to give his speech and then Tony Karitsas began the most profanity laced tirade ever seen on television as thousands of Hoosiers watched. Turn the goddamn cameras on. I'm going to show you something. February 10th, 1977. I'm the man that was called the kidnapper. I'm a goddamn national hero and don't you forget it. I've had this gun stuck in this cocksucker's head for three days. They've had one stuck in mind for four and a half years. I hope this gun doesn't go off. I'm having too much fun. The Halls took a goddamn good shot at ruining a good man's life and that's me. I happen to be a goddamn pretty nice fella. My friends would say I'm the most stable man that they know. Uh sir. They would say that. Man who's human centipede and another man. I'm the most stable guy. Okay. Can you imagine what it would take to drive a man like me to do something like this? Ladies and gentlemen, when I picked up this shotgun Tuesday morning, all the hell I've been through seemed like a goddamn picnic. I've never felt such trauma as when I picked this thing up, walked out the door, drove downtown and these people made me do it. I want everyone that's called me and said they were sympathetic to know that I damn well appreciate it. And all the people who pranked me. Not cool. I am not a pizza guy. So that just has to be the weirdest scene ever. It's on. You can we can watch it after this. Oh my god. Uh and then Tony started to cry. Of course. You gotta hit all the emotions. I was in trouble friends. When you saw one of these goddamn things off and kidnap somebody, I tell you, it's a narrow one way road. There's still kids out there. I'm gonna talk to the kids now. Okay, you guys kids. Don't solve. If you got a problem with another guy at school or whatever, you don't like some guy on the team, I'm telling you right now, don't solve a shotgun and put this head for three days. Also, a message to the children. Don't sell ice cream. Don't sell ice cream. It's a fucking one way road. It's just path. It's a one way road right here. That that makes me, you know, I I'm not, I'm like losing touch with the idea that the, you know, that they, that a mortgage, this is a mortgage, this represents a mortgage company to him. Yeah, this is a, this is a mortgage situation. Which is crazy, but it's also like, it's sad because they like, you know, they put, yeah, putting someone in a position like that is just so like, I don't know. Well, I couldn't actually find if they did anything wrong. You know, what do you mean? Oh, it's a mortgage company. Like I couldn't. But okay, yeah, that is true. For sure. My gut is to just go against them, but that's probably fair. Okay, so I'm going to show you a picture of the, you know, I love to see. There's the press conference. Are you kidding me? I mean, it's a, it's a guy holding a shotgun to the back of a guy's head while people are all around him. It's the idea that 80% of the expressions here are normal. That's the crazy thing when you watch the video. Not only are they normal, but there's a guy standing right next to Tony chewing gum. No gum. It's the craziest. He's just like, we're going to get through this, right? Oh, yeah. The press did not ask any questions. When Tony stopped talking, it was just complete silence. During the speech, Tony took time to praise police chief Gallagher saying, if it were not for you, I would have blown his brains out. Gallagher's a god. Gallagher's a damn fine man. This guy over here, this police chief fella, he stopped me from killing this guy. He's great. He's a good one. You guys keep this guy. Trust me. There's something great about the idea that it's about blowing a head off in someone's name Gallagher in their honesty. Besides, so besides, I wrote here, besides Tony was a cop chewing gum. Hall had his eyes closed, clearly thinking the end of the speech would be followed by his brains being blown out. What Tony could not see was down all the halls to the recreation room were SWAT team members, all armed with an automatic weapon ready to blow Tony's brains out. The police had consulted with a doctor during the three days to find out the quickest way to drop a man if you shot him in the head. The answer was right under the neck below the ear and the man would die instantly. So the police chief was standing there besides Tony with a gun in one pocket and a handkerchief in the other. His plan was to pull out the handkerchief to signal everyone that he was about to shoot Tony. When the chief whipped out his gun, there was to be another cop whose job would be to push the shotgun toward the ceiling away from Hall's head. Everyone was on edge waiting for that handkerchief to come out. Who knew that all the cops, but the press was like, we're press had no idea. Oh my god. Two or three times, Tony got so out of control during his speech that the chief grabbed the handkerchief and was about to pull it out and then Tony would come back down. If Tony did not give up the shotgun after you read the speech, the chief was going to shoot it. Tony was not going to be allowed to go back into his apartment. The rant, the rant lasted 23 minutes. Oh god. That is rant level. That is fucking crazy. Probably not a lot of jokes. Oh no. Tony finally stopped talking. Then the chief turned to all the reporters and said quote, all you people get the fuck out of here. Awesome. And then news media scrammed. Oh yeah. The police led Tony down a hall and into a side room. In the side room, there were a bunch of police. Before all of the hostage stuff started, Tony had overheard a group of men who were staying in an apartment across the hall from him about how messy their place had become. So Tony reached into his wallet with his free hand and took $100 out, $100 bill and asked the police to give it to the guys to hire a cleaning service. Oh my god. What is happening? Well, he's a good guy. That's what's happening. He said he was a good guy. He's a good guy. Hey, look, I'm going out, but it'd be great if the guys, you know, the guys across the across the hall, they're having some problems. They're fighting a little bit over cleaning and I think it'd be great if they got their place cleaned up a little bit. He's a hard guy to. It's hard for me to be. You're rooting for him. I'm not. I am. I'm rooting for him. That's a good way of putting it. I'm rooting for him to send. But I want this to end and I want someone to hug him and be like, you're gonna get a nice home. I feel like that'll happen. And then Tony unwired the shotgun from Hall's neck, let Hall go and walked over to a sliding glass door, opened it, said, I've wanted to fire this thing for three days and blasted the shotgun off outside and the media was like, he's dead for sure dead, right? All the media thought that something. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, they were all. Yeah. And he also did this because he wanted the cops to know it was loaded. He laughed and said, by God, I told you. Hall Hall passed out. It's what we call the hall pass. The cops grabbed Tony and arrested him. He was then what grounds? Yeah, it's a good question. Okay. He was then informed they weren't giving him $5 million and he wasn't getting immunity. Tony said, quote, that's a cheap shot. I mean, honestly, that use of language in this moment is amazing. That's a cheap shot. You just had a dude hooked up to a shotgun for three days. It's the best thing ever. When the cops went into Tony's apartment, they did not find any bombs or dynamite, but they did find a lot of gasoline. Skip has reporter quote, I looked in and the whole place had wires hooked to plates with burning candles above cans of gasoline. I couldn't tell you how many there were. Well, there's some level of threat. Bring in our candle guy. We don't need the bomb diffuser. Bring in candles. Get your candles up here. Alright, hold on. We're gonna have to put all these out. Uh you know what? I'm gonna need my blow guy. Oh god damn it. Get the blow guy. I need my candle stick maker. My god damn it. I'm gonna need to talk to the wax man. Let me call my yarn fella. Alright, we need a socks guy up here too. Yeah, hurry. It's getting a little crowded up here too. We got too many guys. We got a lot of guys up here. Why is the butcher here? Yeah, if you could just put the pork there. And the baker. Uh oh and the candlestick. Okay. Yeah. Well, this is stupid. Yeah, you got it. We've been had. Alright, so I'm gonna say the kitchen with the knife uh by Mr. Mustard. Guys, for the last time, we are not playing clue up here. Oh, well, **** Yeah. Stop trying to god damn it. Get a lot of you need to go. Okay, let's go. Let's get out of here. Uh oddly, a few of the cops that day were sort of on Tony's side or they felt for him. Al Walker of the Indiana State Police said quote, I thought that was going to be his grand showing. He was going to blow Hall's head off. Yeah. But it didn't happen though and I'm glad it didn't. Tony was just a guy who had a bad day. Sure. Well, we all have these sort of days. It was it a Monday. He might have had a case of the Mondays. You know, it started out. I just uh I hate a lasagna and I have a I've had a bad and I had the Monday blues. I think it's Odie. Psychiatrists were asked by reporters to make a diagnosis but they all refused because he's bad **** because you can't make a diagnosis of a guy on TV. Yeah. Though they did say he should be examined. Oh cool. Hall came to a press conference later that day when asked by reporters what he was thinking. Hall said quote, I just figured in my mind that God had a plan for everybody. I didn't quite understand why this was part of his plan. Yeah, kind of a weird kink for God. Apparently, Tony was an atheist and Hall was a deacon. So, they spent a lot of the sixty-three hours discussing the discussing the existence of God and the power of prayer. I mean, I can only imagine how hard Hall's pushing for that. Oh, I can think it was put a **** shotgun on my head instead of doing that. Honestly, sixty-three hours. He was doing it to Hall Hall. Tony's an atheist and Hall is the deacon. Okay. So, seriously **** instead of sitting there listening to that, put a gun to my head because I don't wanna hear an atheist and a deacon have a talk ever. The next day when when word got out that Tony was not getting immunity is promised. So, people were not happy and they let the police know. Police Chief Gallagher said quote, we're getting many calls today from people who are upset because they feel Tony was lied to. Our position is that it's a matter of which president precedent should be said. That of saving lies or that of never having told a lie. Okay. So, either either we were trying to actually keep a guy from being shot and so we lied to do that. We're sorry about that. I guess we should let the guy get killed. Yeah, I don't know. Well, I mean, yeah. Tony's brother, Jimmy said he didn't realize the prosecutor's office was negotiating in bad faith. The mayor agreed with the decision quote, if I were at the end of that gun, I'd want people negotiating to say whatever they could to talk that man out of shooting my head off. Fair. Fair point. Fair point. Fair point. Fair point. And the prosecutor's office also said that Tony had broken the immunity agreement terms by not releasing Hall before going downstairs to hold the press conference. Actually, just the press conference itself was enough to break the agreement. The agreement was he'd leave Hall in the apartment or let him go. So, he didn't either. Okay. The guys who had the dirty apartment across the hall turned down the $100 to hire a cleaning service. Right. Who are these guys? What the why? Take the money. Take the money and **** clean your place. Clean it. Maybe they like maybe they like conflict a little bit too much. They must. They like a dirty place. At Tony's pretrial hearing, things had gone south. Tony was strapped on a gurney, ranting and raving. At one point, he looked over at reporter Skip Hess and said, Skip, you son of a ****, you never came back and bought that car from me. What? Skip. Quote. I thought, what the hell is he talking about? It suddenly dawned on me ten years earlier, he worked for Pontiac dealership and I was thinking to buy on a 1968 Pontiac convertible and Tony was the salesman and I told them I would sleep on it but two days later, I came back and Tony wasn't there and I bought the car from somebody else and Tony never forgot it. Man, that guy can hold a crutch. That's awesome. Tony's trial was later that year. His lawyers convinced him to pursue a not guilty by reason of insanity defense even though Tony did not want to. In court, among many belligerent allegations and non-sequiturs, Tony accused Hall of having once mocked his sports coat. The court appointed psychiatrist said Tony was in a paranoid delusional state. Tony took the witness stand and a paper said his defense attorney quote played him like a harp. Tony laughed and then he cried and then he was very serious. It just was like up and down all over the **** place. Police officers were called to testify and they largely said the same thing. Tony was a really good guy and believed in following the law and he couldn't have been in his right mind when he did it. At one point during the trial, everyone was eating lunch when one of the jurists started choking. Another jurist tried to perform the Heimlich maneuver but he was doing it wrong and then Tony's brother Jimmy ran over and performed it quickly saving the jurists life. Wow. You, I mean, boom. That, come on. Juror number eight. Jimmy would testify in a couple of days later on his brother's behalf. I'm assuming the jurist might have been biased. Yeah, for sure. Tony won. He was innocent by reason of insanity. Alright, it was the first jury verdict of a Quiddle broadcast live on nationwide television. Somehow Tony had become kind of a folk hero. The little guy fighting the system, fighting the bad bankers when they announced the verdict in the middle of a Pacers game, the audience cheered wildly. The Pacers crowd? Yeah. Wow. For a guy who held the shotgun to a man's head for 63 hours. But that did not mean Tony was free. Tony was kept in custody for the next decade until doctors believed he would not pose a danger to himself or others if he were free. The whole time, Tony refused to allow a psychiatrist to evaluate him. He could have possibly gotten out in six months if he had but he wouldn't do it. Wow. He could still buy a gun right now, by the way. Probably. The Tony Kritsis case led to Indiana Legislatures amending the law to provide for verdicts of guilty but mentally ill and not responsible by reason of insanity. Things did not go well for Richard Hall after the hostage crisis. He had a nervous breakdown. Three years later, he was divorced. He was the opposite before the incident. He had been fun loving and a joy to be around. But now he was quiet and depressed. He went back to his job at the mortgage company. A co-worker said he spent 100% of his time staring out the window as though Tony were to come back and get him. He never gave another interview about what happened. Hall eventually lost his business. The situation was a big moment for TV news. It raised questions about responsibility and whether or not they were being used by Tony. Who was in charge? When should they stop? Those portable cameras made the TV reporters vulnerable. They were at the mercy of anyone who chose to create a news story. It became obvious Tony wouldn't have taken Hall hostage if there wasn't gonna be media coverage. After looking back on it and reflecting, some said given the chance to do it over again, they would not have stayed live on Tony as he gave his rant. Quote, we were saying in effect to the television viewer, this man may blow this man's head into your living room at any moment and it's going to be dramatic and it's going to be theatrical. It's going to be great stuff and we're gonna bring it to you. We chose to stay live because the story was so overpowering. The story had outrun us. Meridian mortgage was a family business. Richard Hall was the son of Meridian's chairman Emma Hall and his brother Jack also worked there. In fact, Jack people think might have been the intended victim. One of Caritz's acquaintances later said Tony had told her about this exact type of kidnapping fantasy but instead it was Jack Hall in Richard's place. Oh wow. You guys look a lot alike, huh? On. You guys get that a lot. Did you guys have you had similar faces and noses? Like a bro, like the way your brother's like a brother, you have like a brother thing. What your brother Jack is? You guys look really I was gonna I know it's been 48 hours but I gotta tell you something. I yeah, this is a laugh. I can't. I can't that for your brother. Your brother should be here. Not you. Oh **** me. You want a donut? You sure you done it? People get us mixed up a lot. Yeah. Oh, you guys look a lot alike. I'm on a diet. We both are. So, on on January 22nd, 1987, a Republican member of the Pennsylvania State Senate, Bud Dwyer held a news conference to discuss his conviction for receiving a bribe. He believed it was a political prosecution and he was to be sentenced in a couple of days. The media believed he was going to resign from office. This is after reading a speech, he pulled a 357 Magnum from Manila envelope and put the gun in his mouth. People yelled at him not to do it. He fired the gun. The press conference was not carried live but the news had recorded the event. One camera even zooming in on his body. Several television stations then broadcast the suicide using the taped footage to their midday audience. Some froze the action before he fired. Some had audio playing over the frozen image. Others aired it unedited showing Dwyer blowing his brains out. It was a snow day. Many children were home from school due to a snow storm and saw the suicide. Even though hundreds of viewers complain that some stations continue to show Bud Dwyer killing himself throughout the day. So, the media learned a lot from Tony's moment. Well, that song, Hey Man, Nice Shot. Yeah. That was the situation. So, it's worth it. Yeah. Tony was released in 1988. He found work as a car salesman. He was now on medication and would occasionally go off. Tony. And call the media with conspiracy theories. Excuse me. Tony sold cars again. Yeah. So, I gave him a job. I mean, everybody knew Tony. You know, he's a good guy. But if that many people think that he was justified in doing it, that he's gonna get a job. Well, look, and I think, well, I mean, obviously, car dealerships, their commercial bottom is pretty low. Yeah. I'm sure they had him like holding a shotgun up against a car and like holding a shotgun in a close up like I'm gonna blow your head off and then they reveal that he's pointing at a gun and he's like with our fall prices. That's right. Our fall prices are dropping. We're giving away everything. Our APR financing is lower than it's ever been. If you don't come down here, I'm gonna put wire around your neck and hold you hostage for 68 hours while I threaten to shoot you. See you Wednesday. Come on down. Oh, **** Tony once called a congressional aide and told him he'd get the same treatment as Richard Hall. The aid knew Tony's story and told the police. They checked on Tony and found out he was once again off his meds. Oh boy. Tony died of natural causes in 2005. Richard Hall is retired and living somewhere in Indianapolis. That is so crazy. Isn't that a **** crazy story? That really even for this podcast, that's insane. I just can't even. It's crazy and and to the point that you're leaning towards at the end, I mean, you know, that is part of the thing. I always think it's so funny how like when on a sporting event, if a streaker dashes on the field, they will turn the cameras away from that and yet the stuff that they're comfortable with showing or the chances they're willing to take in live media and stuff like that. It's just insane. Yeah, it's completely **** like we live in a different culture. Obviously, we're like we report on ourselves now more than we listen to. You know, we follow what news organizations show us, but it's still it's like there is the media is so implicated in all this. Yeah, it's really it's it's super implicated in all this like they this is this seems like a time when they they crossed the line and they they have not gone back. They when they there was a time when they were the voice of reason. Yeah. What do you got for me? And now? Yes. Put it on a pal. We're partners in this. My god. I was right. That is madness. It's just picking. He's just **** holding the **** gun. Talking by god. I was right. Reality. When that was when people were around being like, let him finish, right? Yeah, crazy. That's crazy. And and the fact that they're all so close and right there and that he's like, we're partners in this. We're partners in this. Me and this guy. Hall's like, I didn't sign anything. Yeah, I don't think it's like a legally binding partnership stuff like the shotgun for instance. Like who has the shotgun on the back of their head? Alright. Well, we did it. Yeah, we did it together. We made it happen. We're we signed cars. Hello.