 Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the live dollop at the Meltdown. Please welcome your hosts for this evening, Dave Anthony and Gary Reynolds. I thought you said they squared the pills away. I did so much heroin. You said earlier that they squared that away with you. I was outside and I had, I was in my car and I had a bunch of heroin and it was like before the show and I was like, I should just do this. Remember you said you were going to call it vertigo? Oh, I have vertigo. Yeah, yeah, right. Yeah. You don't do heroin. You don't do heroin. I don't do heroin. Oh, there we go. Back to the talking points. I'll be reading the story tonight, so, and I don't know what it is still. Excited to learn. This is a joke. Very natural. As natural as backstage. Addiction's a funny thing. I have a very pretty wave on my iPad. All right. Watch those subtle branded marketing checks rolling. So this is a podcast called The Dolph. Everyone's probably here to see the ladies from the Better podcast, which is totally acceptable that they haven't done a live one yet. So you're like, all right, we'll go to one they're on that's not theirs. Perfectly reasonable. Which is why I think the word count was a smart idea. So we get the spotlight, you know, the word count. So it's going to be a long show. Feels like an away game. On the road. But this is The Dolph. This is a bi-weekly American history podcast. Each week I read a story from American history to my friend. Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is going to be about. And when we do live shows, we love to have guests. And one is an old, old friend of mine and one is a new, new friend. I think their show is their podcast is awesome. My favorite murder. I've obviously talked about on the podcast. And I'm very glad to see Karen finally have success. Poor girl. Oh my God. I mean, how long was she going to live in a box? How long? So talking. What is the heroin? It sounds like there it is. So let's bring them up. Ladies and gentlemen, Georgia Hardstark and the character. Or as I like to say, Georgina Hubostank. I took your name and I took it up and I took it down at the same time. You're changing names with a G now. Hubostank is the worst word in the human. Worst band, worst noun. There's nothing good about it. And yet here you are. How are you guys? Welcome to our podcast. So much attitude right off the bat. It's weird when someone comes out and without saying a word, they say, why the fuck am I here? I can't wait to see this plot carry through the evening. This is, I mean, there's stakes now. 1880. Walburga Korshell. Whoa. I know what this is about. Do you really? You already fucking know about Walburga? I think so. I don't know. You're talking about Walburga's, right? The best show on TV. That's exactly right. Walburga Korshell was born in Germany or Milwaukee, Wisconsin. We don't know which one. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know which one. No one. Honestly, no one fucking knows. So she grew up with German parents, very poor on a Midwestern farm. They nicknamed her Dolly because Walburga is a fucking crazy name. This is the one. This is the one? Yeah. Is it okay if I tell you this right now? I'll be you. Yeah. I'm not rushing into it, but I got to do some... There's a show called A Crime to Remember that's on, I think on ID. And it's basically old crimes. And then they have talking head experts that explain what the crime is. And I got to be on that show and this was my case. Shut up. I swear to God. I swear to God. Shut up. I swear to God. Okay. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much. Yeah. So you've got lines already. Yeah. So you're gonna be like, no. That's not what happened. You know, on the ID channel, Dave, they didn't actually tell us about that. You know, we did a dance number, Dave, and she's an expert. All right. Well, Georgia hasn't heard it. I don't know what the fuck they're gonna do. And Gareth has no fucking idea what's going on. Oh, it rings a bell. What's funny? The dummy's in the middle here. When Dolly was 13, she went to work in a factory. Then like some crazy dream, she met and married a wealthy factory owner named Fred A. Strike. It's not a strike. No, it's not. I looked it up. I'm just kidding. Fuck. Fuck. Oh, yes. How often do I look up a fucking name? Never. Never. This actually sounds like our podcast already is, Karen, correcting everything I say. You should see me the other day when I was watching some show and they're like, and the Hoppy Indians, and I was like, oh, fuck. Did a whole podcast calling them Hoppy. They're optimists. So she got married when she was 17. He made women's clothes, mostly women's aprons in a large factory in Milwaukee, rolling in it, rolling in it. They're both German, right? Both had blonde hair and were a bit plump. Very German. What? I'm keeping it real. We don't hold back here on the dollop. The couple settled in Milwaukee, but as the years passed, the marriage wasn't doing that great. Fred enjoyed his liquor quite a bit. He was too stressed out from the apron factory. You don't understand the numbers, Dolly. There's a front, there's no back. So Fred's boozing and Dolly was not getting as much sex as she would like and they ended up fighting a lot. I think I know it. I think I got it. Uh huh. Yeah. Another one. Do you really? I think I got it. Motherfucker. I'm still with you, baby. I know you are. I know you are. Stick with your rock. I don't know nothing about you. I don't know nothing about nothing. See it's hard. It's hard to do this with people who read, but I don't even know what kind of wine this is. So Dolly turned into the typical, stereotypical, wanting housewife at home and Fred was cheap. He was an asshole factory owner known to walk through the factory yelling at the 50 men and women who worked there to work harder. While Dolly was the opposite, everyone who worked at the factory liked her and she tried to smooth things over for Fred being an asshole. So she's a nice lady. Okay. Right? Yeah. And when she was... You went real high registering your voice. She's giving me nerves. That means danger. Danger. Danger ahead. Danger. And then she went to the factory one day and her eyes caught a 17 year old sewing machine repair man who worked there. Girl, you go girl. Do you. Now the young lad's name was Otto, cause you know, keep it German. Otto Sennhuber and he'd been an orphan and adopted by a family. He was short, lanky, wore glasses and had a receding chin. He had it all. And he was... I'm sorry, a receding chin? Yeah. I was trying to decide which word to pick and I was like, oh, it looks like it just keeps going in. Like it looks like, if you see pictures of him, you're like, I think that's actually going backwards. Running from the rest of his face. It's like... It might be apron neck. Oh. It's a very common back then. Very common. Thank you. I do know some stuff. And he was painfully shy. Dolly clearly saw someone who would be easy to mold and control. She started getting him more and more work at the factory and got to know him better. Then her sewing machine at home broke down. Broke down. She just stabbed him. I don't know. It's covered in water and has been stabbed a bunch. Anyway, I'm going to go change. Send the 17 year old. Dolly asked Fred to send the repairman to fix it. It's a hot autumn day. 1913. Hot auto day. Yeah. So he knocked on the door and Dolly answered. There was the knot strapping 17 year old auto. Hi. Hey, man. It's really hot. My chin's vanishing again. Happens in the humidity. And there stood Dolly wearing stockings, a silk robe, and that's it. Woo. Stockings is not sexy alone. Well, it's the 1913. So I think that's... See how much it hurts my waist. I feel like your chin looks... Looks what? Oh, boy. So the pictures of her, as the story goes on, if you ever see a picture of her, doesn't make any sense. It didn't take long before they were going at it. The Otto and Dolly affair was on. They went hot and heavy after that. At first they would meet in hotels around Milwaukee, but after a while they said fuck it and started doing it in Fred and Dolly's bed in her home while Fred was at work. Yeah. Yeah, girl. What's up? Keep it naughty. So sometimes they had sex eight times a day. Wow, he is Otto. This went on for three years. Whoa. Now... Do the math. Yeah. Ouch. High five. I bet the chin was gone at the end of the day. Vital marrow. You can tell which one of us is married because I was like, fuck no. Now this being the early 1900s, with not much to do but talk about each other, the neighbors became very suspicious of the constant repairs being done to Dolly's sewing machine. That's amazing. It just keeps breaking down. Hours and hours of repairs. I got to get that thing fixed again. But she actually then went and told the neighbors that he was her quote vagabond half brother. That'll make things easier to understand. Sounds legit. She was solutions based. Yeah. It's not super legit. It does. It's not that. Now of course, one neighbor mentioned the vagabond brother to Fred who was not pleased. He confronted Dolly and she very calmly explained that a book salesman had been bothering her but that she'd put a stop to it. And Fred seemed satisfied with the answer. Well, no more questions. Oh, a book seller. Well, they are relentless. That explains all the shouting and groaning. Doesn't it? This is just like the candle peddler from last year. Exactly. They come once a year, darling. Oh, they come more than once a year. They come eight times a day, darling. But the neighbor situation was a problem and having Otto always come and go was now an issue so Dolly came up with a great plan. Otto would quit his job and move into the attic of her house. Oh, that's smart. Where her husband lived with her in the attic. I think she's having sex with the raccoons. Always up in that attic. The scratching, the clawing. So Fred moved up into the attic and it was like his bachelor pad situation. Yeah. He saw Otto, sorry, Otto did. So Otto saw it as free rent, obviously with a side of fucking, you know? So in what would be the most insane Threes Company episode of the 1900s, a dude moved into the house of a married woman and lived in her attic so he could fuck her. Take that in, Frank. I was going to go with V.C. Andrews, but that won't do. I love it. V.C. Andrews is where my mind would have gone too. This guy, this guy. Now the V.C. Andrews, that's real, right? Yeah, that really happened. Come on, open your mind. I'm married. Okay, but this meant Otto would pretty much have to completely give up his life and not see other people anymore, all in the name of having sex with Dolly. But he didn't care. He didn't have any family and he was completely obsessed with Dolly. Can I just really quickly say? Just to describe her, because I think you don't want to be indelicate or rude. Yeah, because I'm a fella. I'm a fella, I can't say it, but please go. Dolly's breasts look like two third graders had curled up and fell asleep on her chest. They defy logic. You have to go home and look them up on Google. There's a picture of her with a turn of the century dress and her boobs go from her chin to her knees. It is magical. You have to see it. It's insanity. I don't think she's wearing a bra in that picture either. Why would she? She keeps it loose. She's got her stockings on. They're all in there together. It's nuts. And the face is nothing to write home about. It really isn't, Dave. Let's be honest. I mean, she must have had an amazing charisma because everything else fought it. When you... I'm not... Who am I to say? Everybody who reads this story reads, and then he moves to the attic, and then right then you go, I gotta look this person up. And I'm sure every person has had the same reaction like, what? Maybe he just liked attics. It's a good thing. He was using her. Yeah. Savage. Poor Dolly. Okay, so the attic had just a cot, a desk, and a chamber pot. I'm sure the desk came in handy. Dear diary, I'm not sure anymore. The attic was right above the master bedroom. To get into it, you had to climb through a trap door in the bedroom closet ceiling. Otto placed a lock on the inside so Fred couldn't open it and just enter and, hey, what are you doing? Hey! So that's where Otto lived. He quit his job. He moved in there. He would come down when he was sure that Fred was gone for the day or when Dolly signaled him that they were going out for the night. He never, ever left the property. Oh my God. She signaled him by thumping one breast on the floor. Little details that I can provide. And he was like, was that a cat? It sounded like a bagged cat. Is there a cat made of sand? Of third graders for some reason. She fed him German rye bread, bottles of milk, cheeses, liverwurst, and baloney. Well, I'm sure it had a good hum up there. It smelled like fucking eight times a day and krautin' milk. At least it's pre AC in the... Yeah, exactly. In the Milwaukee summer. Yeah. And he had one greenhouse window. What were you saying? I'm sweating right now. I feel for him. It was so much hotter where he was. He just could not make any sounds at night because Fred would be home and he also wasn't allowed to go near the one window. There was one window where he was like, maybe. I saw a bird. You're my only friend besides dolly's tits. At night he would read through stacks of nautical adventure books by candlelight. Dreaming of being on a boat. My god. Dolly would check them out of the library for him. On nights when they were out on a date, Otto would sometimes leave the attic for a bit of exercise around the house. He also took the time being kept as a sex slave in an attic to have a go at writing pulp fiction. Of course. Yeah. Makes sense. That was his real dream. Pulp fiction magazines were all the rage then. For just 10 cents, one could take a journey through stories of sex murder and addiction. This went on for years. Like five years. Wow. Fuck. That's crazy. It's called love. Don't fucking fight it. Five years. He had to have asked for a lavender candle at one point. The story is to live in the attic, having sex with Dolly and now sometimes getting his work published under a pen name. Fred on the other hand thought he might be losing his mind. He heard noises up in the attic. His cigars kept disappearing. The leftovers would always be gone. I think it was wrong with me that I can't finish a short story but Otto can get shit published. What else is he going to do? He has nothing else to do except just gnaw on some bologna. His publisher was like, we should meet. He's like, we can't meet. At some point, Fred decided it was time to make a change and picked Los Angeles as their future home. Dolly said she would move there but on one condition. We take the attic with us. Just drive the attic there and then I'm in. We don't look in the attic and we fill it with bologna before we leave. I get to go into it eight times a day when we're transporting it. One condition was that the new house had to have an attic. Of course. Get yours. Get yours, Dolly. He was like, what? Yeah, I just love attics. Ours is locked. Yeah. And you know what? I love that about this house. Let's lock the next one. For fun. For fun. Why does it smell like bologna? Let's go out on a date. Let me just thud a boob on the ground and we'll lock the door. Who wants some of mama? That's them hitting the floor. Got it. Feel free to look up the picture on your phones. So houses with attics were rare in LA, but she made sure that they found one. She then sent Otto ahead of their move and he settled right into his new space. The only, yeah. That's amazing. You get there two days earlier. Get in a squat in the attic for a couple days. Get familiar. Know your attic. Know your attic. And when you're comfortable, we'll come. What if it was a smaller attic? It's just a bird house on the side of the house. Otto, get in there. I love her. I don't know. I can make it work. I can make a little desk over here. Write my stories. The attic space in Los Angeles would later be described as a nest. Oh. Not a love nest? Not a nest. Not a love nest. Like a bird house. Like a nest nest or a bird nest. Like that kind of nest. How is he doing this? How are you like, yeah, let's keep going. Let's go somewhere more exciting and I'll do it. I feel like he might have had a touch of low self-esteem. Who, Otto? You think Otto did? Yeah, just a tiny bit. Why? Because of the attics though? I think he might have been a boob man. I mean, those pictures are something. That sounded creepy. It was. It sounded like somebody's attic bound. Honey, can I live in the attic? All he had inside was a mattress, a chamber pot, and an oil lamp. He was living the life every 22 year old dreamed of. 22. The L-Strikes, all-strikes, moved to Los Angeles a week or so later and settled into their new home. They also transitioned from sex slave into just slave. Now when he wasn't making sweet love to Dolly, he was cooking, cleaning, washing dishes, making beds, pretty much taking care of all of Dolly's household duties. He's a feminist icon. Seriously. Now he sounds good, right? Well, she sounds like a bad ass. Yeah. She made a sex Roomba. Way ahead of its time. When they break up, he can take that shit straight to Angie's list because people want that. It's just got like a dildo dragging behind it. It's the new version. There's some kinks. He would also sometimes make bathtub gin. The LA house was more difficult because his attic space was also directly above the ass strikes and he had to be more quiet in this house. Buddy, that just hits you like a punch to the stomach. All of a sudden it got horrible for this guy. Everything until now is fine and he's like, oh. I knew there was a catch. Till now, yeah. Now this also meant that Otto could hear Dolly and Fred having sex. After one night of listening to the woman he loved having sex with her husband, Otto confronted her and she explained she couldn't leave Fred because she had no skills or money of her own. I disagree. She had a couple skills. Otto agreed he wouldn't fight with her about having sex with Fred. No, you're right. You're right. You're right. I'm crazy again. Here I am projecting when I'm the one who's flawed in this situation. Do you? Do you? I guess you can still have sex with your husband while I'm living in the attic with baloney. Yeah. Cooking you guys filets. I'll just be up there. One night Fred thought he heard a man clearing his throat while he and Dolly were in bed. I don't, wherever this goes. But Dolly managed to always explain away these instances because he drank so much. Oh wait. You're drinking. He thinks it's a different dude? No, he. No, it's him. No, Fred heard Otto. Oh, Fred heard Otto. Clearing his throat. I thought Otto heard Fred and he was like, that's not okay with me. You can fuck her all day, but keep that throat clogged. Sleeping up here. What the? Hello? I have a theory that Fred knew the whole time and was just like, how far is she going to fucking take this? Yeah. I mean, I cannot believe the second house thing. This is fucking crazy. She is nuts. Well, Fred probably had a lady in the basement. He was like, huh? That's so funny. You're going to go up there because I'm actually going to go downstairs and also do chores. Yeah. Strenuous ones with moaning. Yeah. I'll see. Let's meet for a din. Thanks. Now it's an M. Night Shyamalan movie. There's a woman in the basement? Otto had no money, obviously, mostly because he lived in an attic. Right. Dolly never gave him anything bigger than a dime. Yeah. I disagree. There was a pussy joke, Dave. It's a pussy joke. I'll explain it later. When Fred found that the attic was locked one day, she just told him she wanted to keep her furs in a safe place. Well, that's kind of true. But even with this great setup, the marriage started to fall apart. Fred was... Same. What? What does it take? Fred kept hitting the bottle harder and harder, and the arguments between the couple began to turn physical. He was still hearing things in the new house just as he had in Milwaukee. His cigars were still vanishing. He was often confused by what was still happening to the leftovers. Sometimes Dolly would tell him that he ate leftovers when he came home drunk and he didn't remember it. I've done that. Honestly, that is so smart for her to say that because he was probably like, well, I probably did. There's other stuff too. Because the only reason she got away with this is because he's drunk. No other way it happens. And the cigars. And the cigars. And the cigars. On August 22, 1922, one of their fights took a rather scary turn. Otto, listening, feared that Fred was going to kill her. So he did what any guy living in an attic fucking a lady would do. He climbed out of his attic hole, grabbed Fred's two 25 caliber pistols, ran downstairs. There he confronted Fred, who was probably like, what the fuck? Why is the repairman from the factory here? The sewing machine's fine, bro. We're in the middle of something. And also at this point, what I have learned is that Otto was incredibly pale and jaundice from being in attics for at this point, almost 10 years or so. And he also had really, like he could only stand like this. No, really? So, yeah. He was like Nosferatu. Yes. So that's who's coming down the stairs with double guns at Fred. Looks like a weird The Ring. Yeah. There's your sewing machine, old man. Oh my God. She's my girlfriend. She's my girlfriend. Your wife has a magic pussy. Did you like your lasagna? It's starting to make sense why it was on the ID network now. So Fred yelled, what are you doing here, you dirty rat? Totally reasonable question. Probably thought it was an actual rat. He might have kind of looked like a rat. The two briefly scuffled, then Otto fired a shot into the ceiling and then three shots, which went right into Fred. Two in the chest, one in the head, killing him instantly. The two sex freaks then decided to make it look like a home robbery gone wrong. First they took off Fred's diamond watch, then they overturned furniture and finally Otto locked Dolly in an upstairs bedroom closet and tossed the key in the hallway. Wait, now does that mean Otto has to go somewhere? No. Where do you think? Go somewhere. He went into the attic like a spider. Well I thought that he would... Crazy me. I thought he'd be like cops might open it. That was when he was crawling up and he was like, oh my God, I have an extra leg. This is going so well. Now a neighbor had heard the shots and called police. The police arrived and found Dolly passed out on the closet floor. After releasing her, she told them they had come home and she went upstairs to hang up her coat, but before she could, she was pushed into the closet from behind and the door was locked. Okay. The chief of detectives who was named Klein didn't doubt her story, but a couple of things were strange. First, robbers just wouldn't use such tiny pistols. Quote, it was a woman's gun. Oh my God. Feminist icon. Also I'm fucking profusely sweating right now and it's embarrassing. You don't look like you're sweating at all. No, you look fine. Wait, now we know. So now... It's a podcast. Now people are looking for it. People at home can't hear, but... And these people don't matter. Thanks for coming again, everybody. Support the dollop. All right. So it's a woman's gun and then they were a bit suspicious when Dolly said she and Fred never fought. And Fred's money wasn't taken. He had cash in his pocket and in his wallet. Usually robbers don't. They don't like cash. Just the diamonds. And if you could write a check. So Klein went to Wisconsin to investigate the couple, but aside from learning that they fought a lot, nothing came of it. And in the end, there was no way Dolly could have locked herself in the closet if she shot Fred. Nope. So that was it. They figured she couldn't have done it. Right? Crime solved. She's locked in the closet. No more questions. Also, don't look in the attic. Great to meet you guys. Dolly then inherited her husband's millions. Oh, he's going to get a big attic now. The liver worst is going to be pouring out of his head. Little waterfall, some wild birds. You think about it. What happens in your attic? Wild birds? Well now they have millions. He can now have a whole little... Like pigeons flying around? Like what kind of wild birds? No, like exotic birds. Like a flamingo? Yeah. Yeah, a bunch of them. So Dolly moved and bought a new smaller home with a smaller attic. Interesting call. How did she rationalize that? I don't know. She was going to get a smaller boyfriend. At 101 North Beachwood Drive. I was really hoping someone would say I lived there. That's my home. Like that? He's still up there. And of course Otto moved into the new attic, his third attic with this lady. They love each other. But there's no husband. What is the... What the fuck is happening? It's the fucking... Once you have a routine... But how do you even... He was probably like, this is awesome. Together finally. She was like, you'll live up there again. Well I think at this point, because of the murder, they don't want anybody to know that he is around. Is there sex rumba? They don't want anyone to know about that? Yeah. She can't immediately have a young, chinless boyfriend. Right. Because everybody would freak out. Very suspicious. She was fucking a boy with a dented face. Murders! So years later he would say he was Dolly's sex slave, imprisoned by his love for her. Really? It's so cute. It's so cute. It's precious. This fucking weirdo living in it like a rat with a dick. Oh it's like Beauty and the Beast, you savage. Have a heart! Fred's murder remained unsolved and police thought there was something off about Dolly, but they couldn't figure out how she could kill Fred and then lock herself in the closet. With such big tits. It's great police work. Everything adds up except how'd she get in the closet? Then Dolly began dating the attorney who was settling Fred's estate. What is Otto's breaking point? What is a deal breaker? His name was Herman Shapiro. And she started getting a little sloppy. First she gave Herman the diamond watch. You'll love this. What an idiot. I took this off a body. Obviously the same diamond watch had been taken from Fred's wrist by the robbers who killed him. Herman immediately recognized it and questioned her about... She gave the watch to the lawyer who was investigating the case. And handling the estate so he knew what everything they had was and how much it was worth. All of their things were on a list in his office. So give that guy the thing. That you stole. I'm a fucking idiot with crazy tits. Happy evidence. So he starts questioning her and Dolly says she found it under a seat cushion in the house and didn't think there was any reason to tell the police. That's still a shitty gift though. He would still have every right to be like, yeah, that's still fucked up. I found it in a cushion. I love you. But it's the worst excuse... These people killed my husband and then they... The thing is they hide their loot in our house. That's the weird thing about these robbers. I think these were scavenger hunting murderers. Very soon Dolly went to her other lover, Roy Klum, so she's fucking this other guy. He's a local businessman and they've been dating for a bit. She told him she had a gun that looked exactly like the murder gun and she was worried the police would think she used it to murder Fred because it looked exactly like the murder weapon and she owned it. She was right to worry. She asked Klum to throw the guns in the La Brea tar pits, which he did. He did it. Because she has a magic vagina. Imagine the pheromones on that woman. They must have been delicious smelling. It's fucking crazy. It's crazy. I mean, how many angles could she work? Dynamite stuff. I've got my fallback in the attic and then I'm playing the field out here. Then she went to a neighbor and told him the exact same story. Naturally, the neighbor took the other gun and, quote, threw it on a rubbish heap in his backyard. And done. But there's no way she didn't fuck him, right? I mean, she had to have fucked that guy too. I mean, I would. Yeah. Why not? At this point, just fuck everybody. Why not? Only rubbish heap well though. She kind of just gave him a... Like a dry tug. I'm not driving to the tar pits for that hand job. And I ain't getting you to the teepees. But then the neighbor's wife found the gun and buried it under a rose bush. Because everyone back then was fucking crazy. They all had syphilis. Yeah. Hopefully, we'll have a gun tree. Worst case scenario, we'll get a gun bush. Perfect family and we'll have a gun tree. Nothing to see here, folks. By July the next year, Detective Klein discovered Dolly had given Herman the diamond watch. He was convinced she was the murderer because robbers usually don't hide their stuff in the place they were... They just killed someone. And Dolly's relationship with Clum was coming apart. They had an ugly breakup and Clum went to the cops and told them he had thrown the murder weapon into the tar pits. Dick. They were like, who wants to go get it? So they searched the tar pits and luckily he had thrown it in a shallow area and they found the gun. And they arrested Dolly. This is also called the Mensa Murders. Just so you know. Working title. Now after reading the headlines, the neighbor went and dug up the gun and his wife had told him she buried under the rose bush. And he brought that in to the police station. Unfortunately it's 11 months later, the gun from the tar pits was in such bad condition that they couldn't link it to the bullets fired and the other gun was completely rusted. So neither gun could be linked. Klein was sure Dolly would cave when being questioned, but she didn't. Then while she was in jail, Herman came to visit. Herman said when she came to meet him in the attorney's room, she took him over to a corner where no one could hear them talk. She said she had not slept the previous evening. Quote, there was a look of terror on her face. She said in a whisper, he is there. And Herman said, who, where? And Dolly said, my faggot bond half brother is in the house and nobody must know it. Do not be afraid. Go to the house and go to my room and to the clothes closet and then drum on the wall with your fingernails and then he'll appear. Don't be afraid of him. Even though he looks like a worm. Don't be afraid of my hunchback worm with just a giant heart on. Don't be scared. He wants a mama. He's going to lead with his dick. He's going to come down dick first. Don't be alarmed. Fuck him. And don't be weirded out by that. And all he says is baloney. Baloney, baloney, baloney. Also he's an author, a published author. I know this sounds insane. She says he is innocent. He will not harm you. Except he killed my husband. So Herman. Except he killed my husband. Right. Except for the killing part. So Herman went to the house and into the closet but he did not rap with his fingernails and instead he nervously whistled. Herman. This is the first reasonable thing anyone has done in this entire. And out came Otto sliding out of a hole into a shelf built to hold hats. Covered in bodily fluid. This guy slides out of the attic and then sits up on a shelf and says, hello Herman, don't be afraid of me. He actually says that? Yeah. Yeah. He said that. That's pretty good on the fly work though. Did he know he was coming over? He must have sensed. She might have said if anything ever goes wrong I'll send Herman. He's like, I've been hearing you guys fuck for months. Yeah. You really know. He's so good at fucking Herman. Do you want to see my wiener? Inner lid, outer lid, inner lid, outer lid. Otto was super pleased to see another person. So what's been going on in the news for the last 15 years? I've been in a fuck attic. Who's the president? What's KFC like? The first two questions out of any man who's been locked in a closet for 10 years. What's happening with the chicken? He's rarely spoken to another human being besides Dolly in 10 years. Herman looked into Otto's bachelor pad addict. There he saw, quote, my old radio crystal set. She's giving him, she's been giving him Herman shit. Yeah. My old used condoms. She's a free gift among everything else. It's like a scrapbook. A writing board attached to a roof rafter held by hinges to form a desk, a reading lamp, large buckets of water, an electric foot warmer. They get cold because they're dead. Canned goods, a small mattress, a collection of books, a few articles of clothing, a razor and some other items. Otto then just started telling Herman. I hate when my facial hair gets out of control. Just don't feel like me. I can't stand up anymore. That faded years ago. Look, my feet are wet. Otto then just started telling Herman about his life as Dolly's maybe half brother. He insisted that Herman call him Otto. Then he explained how he had killed Fred. So they didn't work on the story. I mean, you haven't seen anybody in 10 years. You're like, blah, blah, blah. Everything's coming out. Don't say everything that's ever been in my head. He went into the sex, all the sex. Herman was not pleased. First he thought Otto could get Dolly put away for murder. And then he was like, oh. That would be horrible to put someone in a hole for the rest of their life. Can you imagine what she would be like? No light, just a bed and her own thoughts. Couldn't do that to my princess. And then he was like, oh, and he's also screwing her. So he threw Otto out of the attic, the house, and told him to get out of the state or else he would turn him in. Oh, he let him go? That's sweet. But then his skin caught on fire when he went outside. It wasn't that nice. Now it's cute until you realize the second part of the story is a movie called Powder. So he's just now got to leave the house? Yeah. Okay. Otto freaked. I'll figure it out. What's everything? What is anything? Do you know what I mean? That'd be helpful. Just standing on an onramp with a sign that says, I have a dick. Do you have a sewing machine? I could fix it. I'm a Roomba. So Otto freaks thinking he's going to be arrested for murder and he flees to Canada where they take those kind of people. There he changed his name to Walter Klein. He would say later he did this because he hated Detective Klein. You're right. It doesn't make any sense. Not at all. Otto had become backwards thinking upstairs in the attic. He, I mean, look, he had a plan. He sure did. Now he's improvising. Everything after the attic is improvising. But even though he had been living like a fucking crazy weirdo in a closet, never speaking to anyone but his master slave owner woman, he managed to meet and marry a lady named Matilda. Wow. Again, can't even finish a short story over here. And he's fucking like killing it. He's doing it all. Yeah. How the fuck does he get, how does any woman? So what was your last relationship like? You've heard it a million times. Are you going to finish the salt? Love to just. Love the sodium. So there he lived in Canada becoming as normal of a person as he could. Back in LA, the police still had one big problem when it came to the case against Dolly. How did she lock herself in the closet after killing Fred? Nevermind that the murder weapons also couldn't be matched. They couldn't get past this closet question. Like R. Kelly. She's still locked up and she became ill, so ill that they thought she was dying. So they released her on bail and soon after the charges were dropped. There you go. You're gone. Meanwhile, after all this, Herman thought the best thing he could do now would be to move in with Dolly. What? I mean her vagina. How? Tits has to be just magic. Maybe in between the two huge ones, there was like a third slightly smaller one. And it was just like a spinning image over and over. I can't live in. I will do what you want. Tits, I will live in your attic. Right, pulp? I mean, this would be a great story if Herman moved into the attic, but he didn't. But it would be the best story ever. So they lived. That's how they lived. Herman and Dolly in LA and Otto and Matilda in Canada, years passed. Three years. And then Otto with his new wife moved back to LA. Couldn't stay away. I want to act. I realized now's the time. Quick before they're talkies, I'll be perfect. On my headshot, you won't be able to frame my back out. Just so you know. We've tried. So his excuse was that he couldn't find work in Canada, so he had to come to Los Angeles. Job market is just... We just happened to be where his ex lady lived. Andy had an audition for our Herald team, probably. No we're not there. I was doing Heralds in an attic for years. That's so great to do with other people. This black box is a mansion. He got a job as a janitor. Of course he did. Yeah. Just like when I lived in an attic for a woman. A whole closet? According to Herman, he saw Otto in Los Angeles and said, quote, he informed me that he had married and did not desire that his present wife should know of his previous life or relations with Dolly. Why leave Canada? You haven't. I mean, as far as his life goes. He's like a moth to the flame. Yeah. I mean... You gotta get near it. You gotta get nearer. Tit flame. Tit flame. Tit flame. Tit flame. He said he and his wife were there to... To get jobs that live in Southern California. And then he told Herman that the very thought of being near Dolly made life worth living for him. I just want to be close. That's all. I mean... Soon Dolly hired Otto. You thought Tinder was depressing. Yeah. This is just fucked. There's a lot of addicts in my area, actually. Dolly soon hired Otto to rebuild a cedar closet in her home. What the fuck? A closet? Because she had stabbed the old one with a knife over and over again. I need some of that stuff. When I'm done, can I just go in here? He also did some repairs to the attic to hide the fact that he lived there as much as possible. But a relationship was not happening. Dolly was said to have a stable of men around town she was having sex with. Stable. Horses? Got to go feed the boys. At around the same time, after seven years of a very difficult relationship, Herman broke it off with Dolly and moved out. They were said to be having disagreements over money. Like all Dolly's exes, Herman decided to come clean, went to the district attorney, and told him about the guy who had been living in the attic, the murder, and anything else he knew. It was 1930, a second warrant was issued for Dolly's arrest. And one for Otto. Otto was arrested first. Well, yeah, they put up the APB and they were like, we found him. He's right there, actually. He's buying a lot of oranges and he's right there. He's right there. He's the neon white guy over there. Yeah. He's the glowing one. You actually can't not see him if you're around him. Don't look straight at him. He's reflective, very reflective. Sir, are you a worm? Baloney. Baloney. Otto was interrogated. He tried to put blame wherever he could. At one point saying that Herman Shapiro had, quote, put him under a spell and then he couldn't remember what Herman told him to do. It's like pleading the fifth if you're psychotic. Yeah. He also said he was a victim of amnesia and couldn't remember anything before 1923. There we go. That happens. Me neither. This is actually, it feels to me like this is like a Wikipedia written by a stone 17 year old because it's just, now we're all over the map. It's gone so far off the rails. Oh, it's completely off the fucking rails. I read just newspaper reports about this. It was just like fucking. It just keeps coming. It's crazy. It's relentless. Beam of light arrested. They got him. We're either going to put him in jail or harness his energy. Otto also told the cops he was an author. I mean. I don't remember anything, but I actually am published. And if you guys want to look up some of my stuff. Do you want to read my script? Yeah. That's the ego part, right? Otto explained to the press after what had happened, the papers couldn't get enough of the story. Otto had other concerns though. Quote, the only thing I'm worried about now is how I'm going to explain this to my wife. Oh, honey, sit down. Where to start? You know how I am pale? You know how sometimes you live in an attic as a sewing machine repairman and have sex with a huge titted lady for 15 years, even when they move? So I was in one of those. And I know that you have your stuff too. I remember the stuff about Bruce and that sounded very weird. It was similar. Yeah. And it's the same thing. So that's my garbage and I'm sorry I hid it. Let me show you an improv. In an improv scene based on my life. Fred also said, I'm thinking of going to San Quentin too, but I'm glad it's over and feel much better about it. His wife was at home and her sister-in-law happened to be visiting at the time. So that was a super double awkward conversation. Yeah. You know how when you thought you met me that your sister had found a weirdo? That night the police went to the two homes in which Otto had lived in the attics and inspected them. There were still signs someone had lived there. The papers called it the Batman case. After finding out about Otto's cave-like life in the attic. That's a little unfair to Batman. He wasn't just in the cave like, yeah, what's it like outside? This is pre-Batman. No. Wait, what? He was the first Batman. Batman did not exist. This is the first Batman. Otto was the first Batman. Batman stole from this Batman. This is the Batman. Well, I step off Otto. And my apologies. You are the Bat. The first Superman lived in a urinal. And there was an evil penguin that was after Otto. That's also true. Dolly's attorney said she was unnerved that the case had been reopened but was not hiding anything and had nothing to fear. While their trials were over, reporters, news photographers, and people who just wanted photos of the weirdos would follow Dolly and Otto anywhere they went. Newspapers described her as a naughty vamp and comely. Comely? Comely? Comely. Comely, right? It's comely. It's comely. Comely? Comely. Just say comely. Comely. Say it slow though. Dolly was then arrested but she wouldn't say a word to investigators. Otto, on the other hand, was put in front of a grand jury and there he blabbed and blabbed and blabbed. It's my big chance. So, I mean, he was like, finally, eight people looking at me. My story's a weird one. What's KFC like? Stick to the subject. I'll stick to the subject. Dolly got out on $25,000 bail until the trial ended. Otto's trial was first. At Otto's trial, his defense was that he had been enslaved by Dolly and feared Fred would kill her. He recanted everything he had said at the grand jury. Good. That usually works. Yeah, that's effective. His attorney, Earl Wakeman, specialized in defending murders. Otto pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. The defense tried to make the case that Otto was controlled by a much older, more sophisticated and dominant woman. But Otto was now middle-aged and sitting in the courtroom was a plain-looking, slightly balding dude. He also had a nervous twitch. And no chin. And no chin and he was hunched over and... Yellow. Otto... Yellow. I mean, the jury was like, I think I want to... No, not him. Well, just this guy, shake him, he has a sex slave. No. I don't think so. No. No. Like when he's whispering to his attorney, I think that... I forgot what I was going to say. Otto testified and described an average day in the house. Quote, I made the beds. They slept in separate beds at that point. I changed the linen about two times a week. They loved to sleep clean and I made up the beds for them and put away their clothes and dusted Fred's clothes because he had some beautiful things. And I would keep them in order for him and dust them and dust his shoes, you know, so he would always look neat. And then I would wash the dishes if he wasn't home and if he was home, he would wash them and Miss A-Strike would dry them because I couldn't. And I would get the vegetables clean and they were clean. They praised her vegetables, how clean things were. And I scrubbed the floor and kept it clean and kept the floor neat. She loved to have a beautiful floor and dusted it, you know. Anyway, the question was, what is your name? I liked the picture that he was singing all of that. The vegetables are clean, everyone said they were clean. This is all more proof that Fred knew the whole fucking time. Yeah. Oh, yeah. He was just like, I love having a clean house. I don't give a shit. I don't. I'm for this. This is great. Worth it. When asked about that brief time when he was switching attics from Wisconsin to LA, Otto said, when I was away from my attic, the time was so long, I didn't measure it in hours. I was frantic until I returned. So he couldn't handle being... He's like a... He's writing letters to... He's like red from the Shawshank Redemption. Yeah. Dear old attic, it's me, Otto again. Otto also testified that when he tried to get his way, he had to resort to going on hunger strikes because he had no power in the relationship. Quote, it was sort of a defense. I had no other weapon. I did it deliberately. I would go in my attic and I would stay there and I would not come out except just when needed and I would fast. I just wouldn't eat anything. That is all. And I had peace. Maybe it was foolish of me, but I did not. That was the best way of doing it. And she would begin to feel sorry for me, I think, and talk to me softly and bring me food and set it there. Well, now, like in that house at that little door, you know. And then she would become not disagreeable, but annoyed with me. And then I behave myself. But he actually got that from a cosmopolitan article. Want to get your way in the relationship? Starve. And lose a couple pounds at the same time. Get ready for bikini season. What's going on with your fuck boy in the closet? Twenty ways to state you're pissed in your attic prison. Like most of that sounds like his regular life in that situation. He was like, I'll just be in the attic not making a noise and not eating. Her. Sounds like she's having sex with her husband again. I'm getting to her. I know I'm getting to her. She fucks him, but I know that she knows I'm upset. She knows I'm upset. The lawyer asked by behaving yourself, you mean you did what she wanted you to do? Yes, sir. And did that have anything to do with sex? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Oh, I'm a snake. The jury was taken to both houses and allowed to look inside his former addicts. Otto showed them how he got in and out of his little attic bachelor. This takes me back. Oh, man. I used to have... You know what? I was on the hat shelf and I met a fella. Did I tell you guys that? The old claw marks. That takes me back. It's hard to not get nostalgic up here, huh? Herman was called as a prosecution witness, but did not show. A warrant was issued for his arrest. In final arguments, Deputy District Attorney Turner Costello said Otto was a home wrecker and a person of low moral conduct. He was also a subnormal criminal and a cunning misgrant. I would pay money to watch that closing. As Otto was sitting there, like, what is a trial? I was like, he's just being very vicious. I'm getting bad vibes from him. So I don't like him, huh? Oh, man, law is crazy. So is the son. And foods. It was said people could hear loud arguing inside the jury deliberation room. The jury was instructed they could bring a verdict of first degree murder, second degree murder, manslaughter, or not guilty. On July 1st, Otto was found guilty of manslaughter. Unfortunately, the statute of limitations was seven years and eight years had passed. Yeah. So... Yeah. It's so amazing. Yeah. No, no, we hate that. So someone went to the beach. And evaporated. Was immediately picked up by a seagull and eaten. Sweet freedom. And then he's in the nest like, I could get used to this. I won't touch the eggs. I know a little bit. Dolly went on trial. The crowds showing up were so large, the sheriff's department had to be called to keep them out of the courtroom. During the trial, the LA Times noted... And when you say them, you mean her breasts. Yes. Right. They used them as barricades. Anyway. During the trial, the LA Times noted there was a brief delay of a few days because attorney Davis got an eye infection. So she was fucking him. And Dolly also had a cut nipple. So... Dolly was defended by a famous attorney at the time, Jerry Geisler. While on the witness stand, she relentlessly wept and said she loved her husband, but she didn't have a great answer to if she did love her husband, why she did keep a fuck buddy in the attic. The trial ended in a hung jury. Also, she was fucking them. Yeah. It was hung. The last round of ballots, nine voted for second degree murder, one for manslaughter, and two for not guilty. All of the women on the jury voted for second degree murder. A couple of dudes were like, this ain't no big thing. You see the tits on that one? Yeah. There's... It's like nine cats in a bag. The only thing she's guilty of are terrific breasts. Oh, we're all in the room. I didn't realize the break was over. Here's why I think she didn't do it. And I'll tell you why. I have two reasons, and I'll tell you why right now. Two big reasons. Two big reasons, and I think they're gonna help. If this jury's hung, my God, we'll come to a resolution somehow. Even if it's all over the news, I just wanna finish this and move on. Because I love law, and I do. We're in between a couple of tough moments, but I think that if we plow through, we will just agree all over the place. Oh, my God. So Dolly was now also free. Dolly and Otto did not get back together, and soon after the trial, she found a new lover. A newborn gerbil. Ray Burt Hedrick. They lived together in Los Angeles for 30 years before they finally married in 1961, when Dolly was 75. She died two weeks later of cancer. Oh, what? That's insane. All right, I'm dying. Let's do it. Wow. What was the honeymoon? Health insurance. She needed health insurance at that point. Yeah. So he inherited a million dollars. What a great two weeks it was, though. She was very sick the whole time. The writing was on the wall. Now when they met, Ray happened to be married. His ex-wife sued Dolly for quote, heart bomb. Spell it. That's what it said straight out of the LA Times. Heart. Heart bomb. Balm. B-A-L-M. B-A-L-M. The ex-wife did not win the lawsuit. Well, because everyone was like, what is heart bomb? That's what I meant. I want it. We don't know what it is. Well, you know, see what you think. Are you talking about Vicks VapoRub? Because you can't sue someone for that. Sort of, but not really. Apply directly to the forehead. Head on. It is great to remember head on. Sorry, Dave. Always good. Yes. Then Herman sued Dolly for $26,400. Apparently when they were together, the Ostreich factory in Wisconsin burned down and Herman worked as an attorney to settle things with the understanding he would be paid when the insurance payment claim in, but it turned out later there was no insurance policy. Should have kept the watch, man. Should have kept the watch. Yeah, seriously. Diamonds. Herman believed Dolly knew this. She also won that case. She was dishonest. Not our Dolly. No. Not the Dolly we've grown to love. Not this Dolly. Not the Dolly we've grown to love. Not the Dolly we've grown to love. After the treatment by the press, Otto was now seen as an immoral sexual deviant with a creepy love of living in attics. The district attorney labeled him a perjurer of his own soul. Fuck. Holy fuck. I'm sorry, mom. Yeah. I mean, a fella just wants the baloney in an attic for most of his life and now he's a freak. He was free from jail, but in the public eye, he was judged and labeled as a freak. Otto, aka the Batman of Los Angeles, took off. He was never seen again. Last time we saw him, he was 44 years old. We had no idea what happened to Otto, but I guarantee you, he died in an attic. Or he met an English butler. Or he opened a KFC franchise. You know what, it's not that good, but nobody told me for so long. I didn't know what to do. Open one up. I like the bones, personally. The bones are... The bones in the buckets. Leave the meat for the others. I like the cardboard in the mirror. Thanks. The home in which Fred A. Stryk died still stood in 1986. No longer a single family resident, it is now an apartment building with nine small units. One of them is the attic. Oh, shit. That's crazy. What's the rent on the attic? I'd love to know how much the attic go for. Oh, I'm sure it's like two grand now. Two grand? It smells like baloney. You never told me why. Well, you could sleep in some history, sir. Well thank you guys. That was a dollop. That was a dollop. It was a my favorite dollop. That was amazing. The ladies to My Favorite Murder, please listen to My Favorite Murder. Thanks, you guys. You guys were awesome. We signed cars. And merch. Oh, and there's merch back there. We're selling posters and shirts. And if you have correct change, please go to the front of the line. Or if you have singles and shit, singles and fives and stuff, you get to jump the line. Five tens. Yeah, you can jump the line. Yep. Not that I'm an idiot or anything. Nobody said that, baby. Thank you so much for coming out, everybody. We appreciate it, honestly. Thank you. Thank you. There you are.