 I'm gonna do one buck. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. They've okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not gonna come to Tickling Podcast. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi Gary. No, and they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. And they pray. It's so much hostility. Yeah. Yeah. So do I feel good? I feel. I retract the question. Have you heard the phrase crazy, sexy, cool? Yeah. Made famous by one TL. TL? Left Eye? Lisa? Left Eye's dead. Left Eye died. Left Eye died. Actually, there is a VH1 thing they did about her going to, I forget where she was, like, she's like in Malaysia or something. What? And they have footage of literally the crash, because she died in a car crash. And they show right when it was like, oh shit, and that's when they cut. It's crazy. What? Yes. It's crazy. That's fucking nuts. Nuts. And they didn't give you a heads up, because I was watching it like. Oh my god, they didn't? No. There was not like, hey, you're about to watch the moment right before she dies. But yeah, it was crazy. And she kept saying like, right before it, she was like, she felt like there was an omen of death. There was like her whole trip. She was in Malaysia somewhere though. Well, Malaysia's the same thing. Let's just say Malaysia. What's happening? Why did it stop? Oh, good, it stopped. Oh, good. That's fucking awesome. You know, I don't even know what year he was born. Shit. I mean, I should have that information. What? I mean, do you know what era? Yeah, he's like the 1800s. OK. I think that's for people with a mind as big as mine, I think that's fine. Early 1800s. He was a boy genius. OK. He's like Doogie Howser. Sure. MD. Sure. A reference most geniuses use. We're talking about other geniuses. He graduated from the University of Nashville at the top of his class at the age of 14. Shit. OK, so he's fucking. Yeah. This is in the 1800s though when people were just letting their teeth rot. By the time he was 25, he had a degree in medicine and another in law and was legally allowed to practice as both a doctor and a lawyer. At what age? 25. OK. So it seems like he slowed down. But still. Yeah. Getting a medical degree and a law degree. At 25 is crazy. In nine years is pretty nuts. Yes. But he wanted to travel. So he went and explored Europe and then returned to the US and lived in Philadelphia where he practiced medicine. But he hated it. So he went to New Orleans and became a journalist. OK. Sure. Walker was a small and slender man with freckles, gray eyes, and thinning hair. The gray eyes thing freaks me out. His nickname later on became gray eyes. He actually had gray eyes. Like a cat. My license says that I have gray eyes. Does it really? Yeah. I don't think you have gray eyes. I don't. I think that I wouldn't worry too much about his gray eyes. Unless you're worried about mine. Look into him. Well, now I have my suspicions about you. I'm a boy genius. He was five feet, two inches tall, and weighed 120 pounds. So now he's starting to sound a little weirder. So he never stopped being a boy. I think we can now say his eyes were gray. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. It makes more sense. He had giant horns on his head and a tail. Ha ha ha ha. And a wagging tail. Quote, he is said to be remarkable for his abstinence and that wine and the society of ladies have no charm for him. Why is that being framed as a positive thing? I do not know, but some people think that's great. Who are these people? So he didn't drink or enjoy women, although while in New Orleans he had a brief relationship. In New Orleans. He was in New Orleans and he didn't drink or fuck. Perfect place to be. Right? Yeah. Great place to be. He's just there for the smell of bourbon street. He, oh, it smells like. Oh, it's the. It's vomit and pee. It's the worst. Nobody ever prepares you. No. At least they didn't prepare me. It's like walking into a corpse. It's crazy. It's horrifying. It is covered in trash. Yeah. So he had a brief relationship in New Orleans, even though he didn't like women, with a deaf and mute woman named Ellen Martin. Or as she pronounced it, er. So again, he didn't enjoy women. Yeah. Because he's basically in a relationship with a sex doll. Hey, blink if you want to fuck. Uh. OK. So you want to fuck? Uh. What? We have so much in common. So he's a fucking genius. Yeah. And he finds a deaf and mute woman. Yeah. What a genius. And he's just going to bang. Yep. Perfect. So creepy. Perfect. Happy anniversary. Hey, I want to set you up with a girl I think you'd really like. She can't hear or talk. She's dead. You'll love her. She's perfect. She is a freshly dead woman. Her nickname is Slab. You will love Slab. You and Slab are going to have so much in common. You'll love her. She's like your last girl, but not as chatty. Slab. I'm surprised this guy didn't invent the blow up doll. Or the glory hole. Sadly, in 1849, she died of cholera. And he was sad. Anytime your sex doll dies, you get sad. And he went to San Francisco. The Gold Rush was just starting, so tens of thousands of crazy men were pouring into California. It was an insane time. Duels, gunfights, and brawls erupted regularly. Yep. Walker fought in three duels in San Francisco, and he was wounded in two of them. Not a good record. Nope, not a good record at all. But he's alive. Around this time, the US was into taking land from Latin America. Americans in Texas had rebelled against Mexico and won annexation to the US in 1845. The Mexican War broke out in 1846, leading to the absorption of a third of Mexico, with the assistance of American citizens of California who staged their own revolt against Mexico. The newspaper slogan, Manifest Destiny, was born. Manifest Destiny was the widely held belief in the US that American settlers were destined to expand throughout the continent. Basically, America should be everywhere. Everything should be America. Manifest Destiny is such a good shine. Are we acting like that's stopped? No, fuck no. Jesus Christ. Yeah. No. But people wanted to do it for different reasons. Some Southerners wanted to extend the territory open to slavery. Others wanted to export democracy and their own religions to the military regimes of Catholic Latin America. So they were like, I'm a Protestant. I want to turn all those peoples into Protestants. We want to keep dark people as workers. We're on different pages. The idea of Manifest Destiny kicked off a new phenomenon known as filibustering. Oh, fuck. Do you know what filibustering is? Yeah. Here we fight. Oh, fuck. Filibusters were independent adventurers who launched freelance invasions of foreign countries, usually aiming to annex them to the United States. So dudes would just start their own war to try to take over parts of countries, and then they'd be like, OK, this is the US now. Now, I thought we were talking about the political filibuster. No. We're talking about the action of filibustering, which is basically just putting a flag in ground that isn't yours. Which is going somewhere with a bunch of your bros and going, hey, this is ours now. It's like a vacation where you leave with the place you went. Which is fun. That's better than a snow globe. What did you get me from Ibiza? Ibiza. So have at it. It's ours now. I told them. I was really clear. I love that it's not even government sanctioned. It's just some dudes are like, hey, man, have you heard of Honduras? Hey. You heard of Honduras? Yeah, yeah. Why don't we make that ours? Great. Let's do it, Jerry. Heard of Brazil? Yeah. Ours. God damn it. So there were shitloads of filibusters in the decade before the Civil War. Some of America's first in filibusters tried it to invade Canada, which is so great. Oh, boy. Just so great. What a. In 1850 and 1851, scores of Americans landed in Cuba with disastrous results. An ex-Cuban named Narciso Lopez led four filibusters into Cuba with Americans. His final attempt was in August 1851 with about 400 men. It ended in a rout, but this time Lopez was captured and publicly garroted in Havana. Do you know what garroted is? Almost my name. Garroted is a method of capital punishment of Spanish origin in which an iron collar is tightened around the condemned person's neck until death occurs by strangulation or by injury to the spinal column at the base of the brain. Oh, my god. So it's like a slow fuck you. It's not like the guillotine is awesome. Well, you know it's a shitty way to die when you're like, I'm just so envious of those who get hanged. Just sounds horrid. Is there a way you could pick up the pace? Please. Will you just stomp my head out? What about a hammer? Have you thought about a hammer? Another 51 filibusters that went into Cuba were killed by a firing squad, including William Citadin, the nephew of John Citadin, the then attorney general. So this was like everybody. Everybody's in on the filibuster game. The rest were all killed in action or captured or imprisoned. First attempt by Walker. OK. In the summer of 1853, when he was 29, Walker traveled to Goyamas seeking a grant from the government of Mexico to create a buffer colony inside of Mexico. He was supposed to make his own landlocked nation. He told the Mexican government that the colony would serve as a frontier to protect the US from Indian raids. So he goes down to Mexico and he goes, here's the deal. You know you have Mexico? Yeah. So I would like to take a part of that and then just have that as a way to stop Indians from coming and attacking us. Spit on your palm and let's shake. So cool. So part of Mexico's mine then? I mean, what are these like? How do you react? A nation is like, no. Mexico was like, yeah, no. No, because it's ours. You know how you took Texas, then a bunch of California? Uh-huh. So go fuck yourself. You can't just have shit. Just want a little area of Mexico. No. Little spot would be nice. No, it's ours. We're filibustering. It's a term. So Walker came back to the US and started recruiting dudes who were super into slavery and the manifest destiny. They just happened to be mostly from Kentucky and Tennessee. The smart places. But his idea was to establish an independent republic of Sonora. Then hopefully Sonora could join the US. He funded his operation by selling lots of land in the new Republic of Sonora. He's made off. Amazing. So he just goes around going, so listen. I'm going to go down to Mexico. And I'm going to take over a bunch of Mexico. And then you can have some land. And how am I funding this? By you purchasing this land. You buy the land that I don't own. Then I'll go own it. Right order. Feels good. Feels like definitely the right order. Feels like the right order to me. You pay me. I take it. It's yours. You buy the land. I go get the land. Yeah. Makes sense. Makes perfect sense. On October 15, 1853, Walker set out with 45 men to conquer the Mexican territories of Baja, California, and Sonora. I don't see how this can't work. No. 45 dudes. 45 guys. Good luck Mexico. Yeah. Am I wrong? Mexico, you're on notice. Ha ha ha! Hope you're ready for 45 men. He succeeded in capturing La Paz, which was the capital of the sparsely populated Baja, California. So he went to a place where no one lived and went, mine! You guys lose. He quickly declared it the capital of the new Republic of Lower California and himself as president. Catchy title. Hello, I am Presidente. I am the president now. He then put the region under the laws of the American state of Louisiana, which made slavery legal. Oh, wow. Hello. So here's the deal. I'm here, and I took over your town of about 40 people. And I'm the president, and you can have slaves. And I know this is a lot to digest, gang. Also, does anybody speak English? All right. How are we feeling? Remember yesterday? Blah. OK. Yeah. We own slaves. OK. Yeah, I'm your Presidente. Hola. Own you. No, hello. We say hello now. You'll need to learn that. Hello. There we go. Welcome aboard. You're the vice president. You're the new vice president. Ha ha ha! The people back home are very impressed. Of course, because they're into this. When news of Walker's exploits reached San Francisco, the skirmish at La Paz was regarded as a great victory. The California newspapers applauded him. Judge Lott, writing for the Pioneer, said, the term filibuster no longer means a pirate. It means the compassing of the weak by the strong. The term filibuster is now identical with the pioneer of progress. If these regions do not soon become a portion of the United States, some other nation stronger than Mexico will grasp them. So basically, they're saying, yeah, we can do whatever we want. And if we don't take Mexico, other people can take. If we can take Mexico, then other people can take Mexico. Am I wrong? Complete pirate mentality. We're not pirates. Now listen to pirate law. Ha ha ha! I mean, we're no longer pirates. We just take what isn't ours and make it ours. Suley, in the annuals of San Francisco, said, American secures the spoils one to her hand. However, dishonesty, they may have come. Oh, cool. And I think we're still holding onto that pretty strong. So we can take whatever we want, no matter how fucked it is. Yeah. As long as we don't remember doing it, it's ours, and it's cool. It's all cool. It's all good. So now people are joining up in San Francisco and elsewhere to go down and join Walker. They're like, this dude's the shit. Let's go fucking help him out. Yeah. Of course. Who wouldn't? Concerned about attacks from Mexico, Walker kept moving his headquarters twice in three months. First rule of the lower state of California is keep moving. Yeah. Right? Sure. He never actually gained control of Sonora. Except between four to seven on the freeways. Right? Yeah. He never actually gained control of Sonora as planned, but he did pronounce Baja, California part of the larger Republic of Sonora. So basically, he's a crazy person running around declaring shit that's not real. Yeah. It feels like right now I could just be like, I'm the president of here. And that's pretty much what he was doing. While Walker was waiting in Baja, California for new recruits, for some unknown reason, for some unknown reason, his vessel, the Caroline, sailed away with the greater part of his supplies. I just love that. The dude in charge of the ship was like, wait a minute. This guy's the president of here. This could be my ship. Yeah. Goodbye. Wait. You can't take my ship. No, I'm on the ship. So it's my. You know you did it with land? He just filibustered my boat. Motherfucker just filibustered the shit out of my boat. So the ship took off with a lot of supplies. And then matters became worse when 200 recruits arrived from San Francisco. And since the supplies were pretty much depleted because they were on the boat, he was forced to send a band of men towards Todos Santos Bay on a foraging expedition. So now dudes that are down there are just trying to find food. Yeah, now they're like, OK, we've got to listen to the president. We've got to go get food for the president. His boat went away. He's a good leader. So he is very good. Good leader. So then discontent started to break out in the army. The newcomers were disappointed that there was no plunder to be had. So these guys were like, these were fucking pious. They're like, let's go take a bunch of shit from Mexico. And then they got down there like, what? How many pizzas did you guys order? There's no shit in Mexico. These are beans. All beans. I forgot to tie my boat up. So food was scarce. And when they did get it, it was not good. Men began to desert. Four of the deserters were arrested. And he had two of them shot dead. The other two publicly flogged. Jesus. So he's a pirate. Yeah, he is a pirate. Fuck. All right, flog, death, death, flog. So then this made him less popular with his troops, if you can imagine. I wonder why. By the time he attacked Sonora, he only had 100 men. And by the time they reached the Colorado River, only 35 men remained in the party. It would take more than this. So they're a clique. It would take more than 35 to hold onto the country. Yeah. I think that's a fair thing to say. I'm looking around. And I'm thinking, we're going to need more than 35 guys. How crazy are we outnumbered by a lot? By like 20,000. By 20,000 to our 35. So Walker decided to abandon the project. And on May 8, 1854, they crossed the frontier near Tijuana and surrendered themselves to the United States officer station there. They were granted parole and were permitted to depart for San Francisco. But the United States government prosecuted him for violating the Neutrality Act, which basically means you can't be a dude. You can't be a dude and try to take over other countries. No pirating. So it prohibits private citizens from warring against foreign nations. Totally reasonable. Or else Pepsi could attack Venezuela. Which is something I would love to see. I would kind of like to see that too. Pepsi's invading Venezuela. It's not Pepsi. It's a Pepsi country. Welcome to Pepsi. Hey, welcome to Pepsi. Want some Pepsi? Dude, we're not far from that. We are. They already named sporting places after fucking everything. It's a matter of time until we're like, I live in AT&T. Yeah, I live in AT&T. This is my buddy. He's from McDonald's. He doesn't speak English. He doesn't speak English because he's from McDonald's. But his friend Starbucks will help. He knows both languages. My god, it's so true. Oh, matter of time. Our names. I'm going to start naming people. Sony. Sony, come here. Get in here, Sony. It's exciting. So if you and I tried to invade Fiji, we'd be tried in court. That's how it works. We love the water, though. But all the Gold Rush idiots who are basically all these guys who just came to San Francisco to get rich by digging up dirt. When you put it like that. So when you think about what kind of people they are, they are cool people. They acquitted him in eight minutes, even though he could have been more guilty of the crime. So now he's like, well, I'm the shit. I can't be stopped. I'm a bulletproof president. Yeah, I really am. I just need a country. So in 1855, he decided to invade Nicaragua. You fooled me twice. Now, Nicaragua was a bit of a mess at the time. Over the last two decades, it had several civil wars. Its two main cities, Leon and Granada, were always fighting. So there were two separate parties. They controlled each city. And they'd fight and take over the country and fight and fight. It's like a tug of war. When the liberals rose again in yet another revolt, Byron Cole, who was a friend of Walker's, negotiated a contract for Walker to come down and fight on the side of the liberals in Nicaragua. So he was basically summoned. I think they're going to regret this. Now, Nicaragua is very important to the United States at the time, because this is before the Panama Canal. And there are no railroads in the US yet. So one of the main ways to get goods and people from California or the Pacific to the Atlantic and New York or whatever was to, on boats down to Nicaragua, and then they would take them upriver on steamships to a lake. And then they'd go another 12 miles on stagecoach. So that was how they got across. Convenient. I know. Super easy. Didn't they know about Uber? I assume half of them died of malaria. Oh my god, yeah. So Cornelius Vanderbilt, who is famous. Of the Vanderbilt. He's like Bill Gates at the time. Yep. Established the Accessory Transit Company, which spanned Nicaragua with the two steamships. And he's the guy who had the whole operation down. OK. He was the president of steamships. He's making a fucking fortune, basically off of this route. And it's very important to the US. So why not just fucking take that shit over, right? Sure, yeah. That's the right way to be. So Civil War broke out in Nicaragua in 1854. He's walkers invited down to join the battle. He got the contract, which keeps him from getting arrested. Because they sort of invite him. So that keeps him from breaking the law. And he goes with 300. Oh, he got a contract to bring 300 mercenaries. That was the contract. Poor bastards. In 1855, he set sail with a grand total of 57 dudes. Here we come. Get your shit ready, Nicaragua. Beats our last cumulative. One died at sea, so 56. When they got there, his force joined up with 170 locals. So 170 Nicaraguans of the Liberal Party. And about 100 Americans who were working around there with the steamship stuff. So like 300 people. They got like 300 dudes. As luck would have it, he attacked Granada and captured the city. Because he pulled up in a steamboat, and they didn't even know that anything was happening. They're like, what, this steamboat? Hey, here's the steamboat. What the fuck? And then all these dudes pour off. Now I'm your president. But then he took the first thing he did was take the families of the leaders hostage. Jesus. So he's like holding kids and saying, we'll kill your kids. So they surrendered. The other side surrendered. So Walker appoints a puppet president. He's like, I just want to picture a real puppet for a second. He declared himself General Lissimo. Wait, what's his name? General Lissimo. That's like the military commander. I am now General Lissimo William Walker of Nicaragua. All matches up, right? And appointed another guy as Secretary of War. That's the first thing you want to do. And he accused the Secretary of War of Treason and had him executed. Yeah, well, listen, it's a slippery slope. It's been a week. But he's like a classic Latin American strongman now, right? He's like, I am a heavy. My Secretary of War caused treason. We kill him. You've been here for 2 and 1 half hours. I want a roller coaster. US President Franklin Pierce recognized Walker's regime as the legitimate government of Nicaragua on May 20, 1856. Not a good move. It's so fucking insane. It's insane. OK, I guess you're president of Nicaragua. Hey, all right, you're the president. You said so. That's how this works. News of his success reached the US, and the slavery advocates began recruiting propaganda. Public meetings were held in some of the large southern cities. Tons of money was raised. And they gave him money for his new country, slave vote. Well, he's the president. You've got to respect him. Got to respect the president. OK, so there were a couple of dudes who worked under Vanderbilt. OK. Like these two main guys that worked under him. And they decided to take advantage of the situation. They were called Morgan and Garrison. And they offered to pay for the transit rights to Nicaragua and start a new steamship and transit line. OK. Walker just had to take all of Vanderbilt's riverboats and steamships and just give them to Morgan and Garrison. So they were like, hey, we got an idea. We want to start a new steamship get across Nicaragua transport thing. So what we want, you know the company we work for? Yeah. So you just take that shit and give it to us. And then that'll be our thing. I declare it. I'm the fucking president. Fuck yeah. Let's dance. Seems fair. The new line would carry filibuster recruits from the US for free. Oh, fuck. So god, what a nightmare. The only thing that's changed is technology. Unbelievable. Yeah. Walker was like, yeah. Shit heads fly free. Oh my god. Shit heads do fly free. Walker was like, yeah, man. That sounds really good. Cool. You just give me a bunch of money. Hey, I don't know if you know how I operate, but I'm really into money. OK. And I would give me that. I need money. And then we're all good. So he took all of Vanderbilt's shit, the stuff that's really important to the US. And he fucked over the most powerful man on Earth. Just a brilliant move. Yeah, shrewd. Well, he's the president. Vanderbilt wrote to his former associates, Morgan and Garrison, gentlemen, you have undertaken to cheat me. Dear fuckers. Hey, shit bags. This is one of the greatest letters of all time. It's so brief. Gentlemen, you have undertaken to cheat me. I won't sue you for the laws too slow. I'll ruin you. Yours truly, Cornelius Vanderbilt. Ah, that is dope. Right? That's great. He's fucking awesome. That's great. OK, you did that. I'm going to destroy you. And it seems like legally it's going to take a while. I'll just end you. Sincerely. Most powerful man on Earth. Now the other countries in Central America were like, what the fuck is going on? I'm starting to think this president doesn't have a lot of experience. And he just went in there and took, oh, he could do that to us? Yeah. Not cool. So they start preparing their armies for battle. OK. And then Walker attacked Costa Rica. Hey, there's a wild card move. Everyone who supported him was like, bro, slow down. Buddy. Hey, you know you've been in Nicaragua for like five hours? You shouldn't drive. Why don't you hang there for a bit? Hang there? You're the president of Nicaragua. That's pretty fucking sweet. Yeah, you got Nicaragua. It's fucking cool. By the way, you shouldn't have gotten Nicaragua. So. Hey, did you notice that you're 5'2 and 120 pounds? Yeah. Do you remember that? At some point, someone's going to pick you up and throw you. You're not going to be president of the world. Tap out. Tap out. So everyone who supported him was like, dude, slow down. Slow it down. Slow it down. It didn't go well. Vanderbilt had a couple agents go down to Costa Rica to give up information on how to defeat him and to. Yeah. Like insider guys, spies, basically. And so he was quickly driven out of Costa Rica. Was the way to defeat him to have more people? I think that's also a good way to defeat him. He'll only have 35. Attack. He starts with 500, and by the end, it's about 20. Once it dawns on them, they start to. They start to the third, the herd thins. And then the Costa Rican army came down with cholera and had to retreat, which is the worst retreat of all, because then you're just. We're sick. Not only are you retreating, you're just shitting the whole way. So it's just a terrible. A cholera retreat. Stop shooting. It's a cholera retreat is the worst of all. Stop shooting at us. I'm trying to run. Oh, boy. So now the guy who Walker installed as the puppet Presidente was like, I'm fucking out of here. This is crazy. Yeah. So he just bailed. The good. He skips across the border. He's gone. Smart. That's the guy. That's it. And you want to be remembered as the guy that's not going to be remembered in this. Yeah, the guy who looks around and goes, this is fucking crazy. Probably just going to roll. I'm going to hit it. So take care, President. Bye bye. So Walker had a rigged election and became the president. No longer Generalissimo. Now president of Nicaragua. His dreams are finally coming true that he's had for five months. He declared English to be the official language. Hey, a normal, nice, nice thing to do. By the way, the national language is something you don't know. Excuse me, everybody listen up. English is now the official language. OK. English is the official language. Espanol. English is the official language. You speak English from now on. No comparte. He issued an edict legalizing slavery. Everybody, you can own people. OK. Yeah, after your first law that it doesn't matter, the rest of your laws, nobody's going to fucking understand. So we're all speaking English. OK? And also slavery is legal. OK, first rule. What? He reorganized currency and fiscal policy to encourage immigration from the US. Hey, everybody get down here. Let's make this place white. Hey, it's America number two. Oh, America number two. Welcome to new America. OK, you guys will have to talk differently, and we're going to bring in slaves and a bunch of white people. It's going to feel a lot like America around here pretty soon, guys. It's kind of my vision for the nation. Have you guys heard of hedonism 2? That's actually what we're going to do here. You're going to love it. So they were not cool with it. Why? What about it didn't register with them? Well, first of all, they had outlawed slavery in 1824. Yeah, but he said it's OK. And they were not into speaking a language they didn't know. Well, they should listen to him. They were like, no, senor. No. No. So white people were kind of douchebags. Are you sure? I think that's what this is. First I've heard of it. But he was a hero in the South because he had gone to a random country and declared they could have slaves. So the South, they're like, yeah, baby! We like the way you roll, Presidente. You were rolling like a motherfucker. You're the man. God damn it. Look at you going nigger on, going making slavery cool. I mean, there might have been a time when he tried to change the name of the country to the N-word around here. He was like, fuck it. Let's go big. Go big or go home. These colors don't run. So he attracted the attention of Pierre Solet, an influential New Orleans politician who campaigned to raise support for Walker's War. So now he's got a big politician who's like, let's give this guy as much money as we can. What he doesn't have right now is the money. But Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala teamed up and invaded from the north. Good. Right? Yeah. Fuck this asshole. At the same time, Costa Rica invaded from the south. Good. They finally got over their diarrhea. So Walker, being super cool and smart, and just being a good guy. I don't like what you're about to say. Set Granada on fire and burned the city to the ground. Oh my god. OK, so I'm your president, and people are coming to get rid of me. So I'm just going to fuck you over. If I can't have it, no one can. What a prick. It's like a five-year-old invading. Yeah. No. It's mine. Then nobody has fun. Nobody. Oh, fuck. So he withdrew. I love. Can you, I mean, it is crazy that it is OK to operate like this. It's fucking insane. Yeah. That people, and I feel like we, like, because there's parallels here, you think, we still have these people all over the place in America. Yes. Like, Iraq, they're like, yeah, let's just go take that and turn it into America. Yeah. And I mean, that worked out really good. It worked out super good. Really good. This kind of works out a little bit the same. Oh, you mean at the end, it's all fixed? Yeah. Perfect. It's all good, and there's democracy. I'm excited. So Walker withdrew and just held the areas where the transit routes were. So now he's withdrawn just to where they get people. So it's basically just the money route. Yeah. That's all he's holding on to. And the way he was fortified, it looked like he could hold it for a long time. They actually set up pretty well. But then there was Vanderbilt. Never fuck with a guy who has a college named after him. Sweet Vanderbilt. I think that's the point. So he had a guy, Spencer, go to Costa Rica with bucket loads of cash. And Spencer got a bunch of Costa Ricans and headed to Nicaragua. And he sees a bunch of Walker's strongholds because he used to work for the transit company. So he knew all the signals. He would pull up his ship and go, hey, guys, and signal, like, I'm on this team. And then he'd just fucking roll in and kill them all and be like, oops, I'm on the other team. Suck my dick. That's so sweet. The I'm on the other team, suck my dick move. Ha ha ha. So Morgan and Garrison pulled all their boats out. OK. So Walker's totally isolated. All righty. So the transit, there's no chipping going on. The government's like, what the fuck are you doing? Yeah. In May 1857, Walker surrendered to the US Navy. They brought him back to New Orleans, where he was greeted as a hero. Hey, great job completely fucking up. Good job. You've done it twice. You're a hero. Nothing went right, but you said slavery was good. I don't know what you did, but you're white, and I love it. I love it. I'm loving every freckle on that face. You're the best whitey, whitey, whitey I've ever seen. You're on your white. So he's a big hero. They're giving him parades and fucking whatever else. I think they thought about trying to, or they did try to arrest him and do another trial. But again, that's not it. The parade's so much easier to plan. It's more fun. Everywhere he went, people loved him. He's like a giant fucking hero. I mean, in the South. In the North, they think he's like a pirate douchebag. So he raised more money, got a bunch of dudes together. No, no, no, no. We just did this. And set off. No, we just did this twice. Let's do it again. No, we're doing it again. It can't go wrong this time. It goes wrong. It can't go wrong. It'll go wrong. How? It works out. It's the same fucking way. Yeah, but I was the president. On November 25th, 1857, he landed at Greytown, Nicaragua with 270. Nicaragua was like, oh, fuck. You've got to be shitting me. Jesus Christ. We had fucking tiny white boys back. We just mopped. Didn't we just fucking, like, you're horrible. Go to Costa Rica. What about Costa Rica? It's a great place. You'll love it. Don't eat the fish. The fish is bad. The fish is bad. But then now he has more followers, because he fucked up twice. So bad. And now he has more people. Like, yeah. It's kind of like Twitter. So he's like, I'm back, motherfuckers. Upon his arrival, he declared himself commander of the Nicaraguan army. And the Nicaraguan army is like, we know where this fucking leads. So he lands and he goes, I'm in charge. Is it OK for me to just start doing this shit? I just walk into a business and be like, yeah, I'm the CEO. So you guys are all fired. And I'm going to do whatever I want. I'm going to go to McDonald's today and go, this is my McDonald's. Just get behind the counter and just be like, guys, we need those burgers. I'm the manager. How does this register work? I'm in charge. Oh, fuck. And he quickly began a war. But he was immediately stopped by the US Navy and brought back to the US. The US was like already waiting. They knew he was going. They were waiting for him. They were camped out. And then as soon as he showed up, they're like, come on. Take him to New Orleans where he gets punished. By flowers being tossed out. Most people in the US were pissed at the Navy. They didn't think the Navy had the right to stop a guy from trying to take over other countries. OK, OK, OK. So just to recap, the problem that people have with this situation is that the Navy has no right to stop this man. Right. Who has no right to take the land that he's taking. Right. OK. People think that you can just go take whatever you want. Good. But if he showed up at their house and went, your house is my house. I'm going to filibuster your wife. Don't worry, I'm the president of her pussy. Let me do my thing. So he's brought back. So then. I swear to God. Three years. No. No. I. He fucking goes to do this shit again. No. Today. Today. Today. Today. Today. He can't. What? He can't go again. Why? If he can't. It's going well. I mean, what the fuck? Just get a job. For fuck's sake, settle down. He's restless. We all get like that, it'll pass. That in 1860. No. A bunch of Brits that lived on an island off Honduras asked him to come down and help them out. But would you please come down and take over our islands? Oh boy. They were worried that Honduras would kick them off the islands. And who better to ask than the shithead who keeps fucking up? I mean. Uh huh. They got a bunch of dudes together. Let me guess. A bunch of them stopped following him. He landed, but it immediately did not go well. Why? What happened? The men began to desert him. Shocking. When has that happened before? And being in a precarious position, he shredded himself to the captain of a British naval vessel off the coast with the agreement that the British guy would bring him back to the US. So he gets down there, everyone bails, it's a total fuck up, but he goes over to the British and goes, just, hey, hey, can you guys just help me out here? I'll tell you what. Can you do me a solid? The US is going to be really pissed if they find out about this shit. Now the thing is, the British were mad at him because the British also used the fucking transport routes. Yeah. So they were like, hey, you're fucking everything up. Hey, if it isn't fuck face. Hey, shit bag, come on in the boat. Yeah. Come on, get on the boat. Get on the boat. I'm the captain of this ship. Yep, sure you are. Thank you. I'll see you later. Okay. So considering how badly Walker just fucked up Nicaragua, they were like, fuck this guy. And they turned him over to Honduras. Oh shit. That's a great move. Honduras quickly tried and executed him by firing a squad on September 12th, 1860. He was 36 years old. Oh shit. Southerners considered him to be a hero, northerners less so. In Central American countries to this day, the generals who defeated him are considered national heroes and they have holidays based on them, on the victories over Walker. Over him, yeah. Yeah. So he's like, he's like their, like it's like their Pearl Harbor. Like to them, it's this great day of victory when all the armies came together and the Nicaraguan general beat him, fucking kicked his ass. They're all great here. Like we created, we didn't. Walker created their national heroes. Yeah. And in America, he's a stamp. In America, nobody remembers it. Yeah. But still the fact that he was so celebrated. It's fucking insane. Well, I don't even, like you don't even mean to, it's strange because you still feel that divide in this country of basically like this, the slavery divide almost. Like, of course, no, that's not saying anyone advocates slavery, but there still is this just gap in the just difference of opinion where a lot of times the South just does things that North minded folk find puzzling. And it's always been that way. It's maybe shifted now. Like, it's not like the South is not like we want slaves, right? But you know, they're still like abortions, killing baby. Yeah. So that's good. That sounds and this was the fact that there were a bunch of other filibusters. Like they were just all these fucking assholes and went on to fill a buster. We, that's literally what we did to Iraq. We went into Iraq and thought, let's put democracy in. And honestly, what we've done to every fucking nation that we've ever been in, because we have bases set up in so many countries where they don't fucking need to have bases. Right. Not that we need a basis at all, but yeah. We're a douchebag. It's honestly tough, man. It's tough. It is tough. I think that it's not to say that there are not great people in this country or smart people. There's a lot of them, but fucking amen. We really just love us. We love to leave shit in a footprint. No, we are stupid assholes. Let's be honest. We're stupid assholes. Honestly. Yeah. I honestly, lately it's just becoming more and more obvious that it's just gone so poorly. I think about it all the time about, imagine being another species. We're just like, there's one species, us, and we get everything. We get everything as ours. We get to fuck everything. Every other species, we just were living in kind of harmonious. Hey, I'm a dolphin. I was just swimming around. No, we're your president. We're your president, dolphin. Do you understand? We're your president now. We're going to give you acid. God damn it. Fuck. God. America is such just a shit fuck of an asshole. Let me be serious. We've done so many things wrong. We're too big. That's the problem. It's too fucking big. If people in France get pissed, they go to the fucking streets. The whole country can just march. Here, we're like, hey, get the email. It's weird. I feel, I'm going to sign an online petition. I got to go get my Valium refilled today though. I made an online petition. Yeah, that is the fucking thing too. Did you sign the petition to stop everything? Oh, I swear to God, if Senator Al Franken emails me one more fucking time, I'm going to find him and beat the fuck out of him. I was like, I don't even know what I signed. I think it was something about net neutrality. But now I'm like, look, I hate you now. I don't know who to like. All right. Well, listen, another great chapter in America's shrewd cutting edge thinking. We've done it again. Brilliant. Oh God. Well, that's the dollop. Sometimes there is just this shit feeling you're left with after this. Some of these dollops, they just go, I can't believe we did that. Yeah. I mean, I can't believe we did that. And then that's why it's so weird with the Ferguson one. Yeah. Because you're like, I can't believe we're doing that. Fuck. Well, thankfully, nothing's going to change. I'm Dave Anthony. That's Gareth Reynolds. Thank you for pronouncing it. The dollop. Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollop Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. Wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up July 22nd through the 25th. I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv August 6th through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there or join me the next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas. If that doesn't work for you, join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night, I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club August 27th. Go to GarethReynolds.com to get tickets for all those dates. I love you.