 I said done my friend. No, no. No, no, no, no. Gareth, um... If you did add a new R into my name, it is there too. Into what? Gareth, it came out. Gareth. Let me ask you some... Grary. Hey, Grary. You've lost the war. That's not what this is about. You had a point. Just make your point. Don't worry about... No, no, you've... You've continued to make the point that you were making before... How are you? I'm fine. I was fine. I don't know why I did it. I don't know why I did it. I was fine. I was fine. And I'm not good. It's gonna be okay. I feel like it's fine. Yeah. No, don't worry. The English language is a fluid language. The words change and the meanings of words change. That's not what this is about. The word literal is recurrently being changed by its use. It's like when people go, that's not the definition of literal. No, it's not. But the English language, which changes as people use words in different ways. So the word literal is literally being changed. The meaning. That's a fair use of it. And your name... Yeah, here we go....is fluid and it's changing and it's becoming... It's evolving into a super name. It's becoming more approachable. Yeah. No, it's working for me. Yeah. Your name is Gareth Reynolds. Yeah. But you're... You're not a fan of that name. You're real... Take down some of the walls. Well, it's like we're not in a kingdom in England. Why... Well... We're not in... Gary. Today's story begins in India. All right. Do you like it when they start in other countries? Sure. Yeah. I feel like that's... Yeah. I like the origins. Chandramohan Jain. Wow. That's pretty good. Was born on December 11th, 1931 in Kuchawada. Oh boy. Kuchawada, a small Indian village. It's great that I can't see the words. So there's really no way for me to know, but I know it's off. I know it's way off. Yeah. He was gifted, but rebellious student in school, and he gained a reputation as a debater. All right. Which is a good thing for a young child to have. Sure. That's called an argumentative child. He's a real debater. He's always debating with the other kids over this thing's being his and everything's his. He just loves to debate. He went to college when he was 19 and was such an argumentative asshole that he was asked to leave. Get out. Good luck. Out. Go. You're terrible. Or no, they'd probably be like, stay here. And he'd be like, no, I'm out of here. That's how you do it. So then he went to a second college and he was such a douchebag at that college that they told him he didn't have to come to school. He could just come to take the test. See, now that's why the world sucks is because assholes do. If you're a big enough asshole, you almost get fast-tracked. Yeah. OK, so I had a test. I was in a graduate school, mostly graduate students in college, and everybody in the class got D's and F's. The teacher just threw us all these fucking curveballs. And we were all like, dude, you even came when we were studying all this shit and you're like, you guys are going to nail it. I'm seeing what you guys are doing. And I stood up in the middle of class and I was like, no, your test was bad. You had a bad test. I mean, you're blaming us and you're saying that this is why the Japanese are ahead of us. We were having an argument. And he goes, come on, I'll talk to you outside. He takes me outside and he goes, I'm going to let you retake the test. Just come to my office next time. Yeah, exactly. Just like completely insane. Exactly. Completely insane. Yeah. So I was this guy. Yeah. He began speaking in public at faith meetings and continued to do so for the next 17 years. He got a master's degree in philosophy and got himself a job teaching at college but was quickly asked to transfer to another college because the vice chancellor considered him as a danger to his students, morality, character and religion. I mean, this guy is a real fucking asshole. This is so far. Everybody's like, just go, go, please leave. Just get the fuck out of here. Yeah. Uh, he then began traveling the country under the name at Sharia Rajneesh. Who hasn't? Giving lectures critical of socialism and Gandhi. Okay. So someone, so finally someone sticking up to the monster that is Gandhi. The satanic monster. Gandhi. He thought Gandhi was a masochist reactionary who worshiped poverty. Wow. Okay. So he's a Republican. Yes. He sounds like a really, he sounds like a rich asshole at that point. Yes. If you tell them someone they worship poverty, like how can you look at Gandhi? It's really, it is really hard to, Gandhi is George Clooney. We all like right. Yeah. He is George Clooney. Yeah. For the right reasons. Yep. Um, so, uh, Rajneesh thought Andy needed capitalism, science, technology and birth control. That's what he would talk about. Mostly he gained a big loyal following of wealthy merchants and businessmen. Of course. The asshole brigade. He just, he's just like, if you're going up and talking shit about Gandhi, then rich people are like, get a load of this guy. This guy's actually finally making some sense. Yeah. We're going to go murder Gandhi. Yeah. He's awful. Yeah. We don't like him. Yeah. He won't eat. He's a pacifist. So we're going to hurt him. And of course you can tell right now that he is just saying shit that rich people love. Right. To get rich people on his side. Yeah. That's all his fucking game is. Yeah. He then started charging them gobs of money for individual consultations about spiritual development. There is. There is. Right there. Then he started meditation camps and centers. Okay. How is he medi, yeah. Okay. India. You get. Yeah, but it doesn't fit him. Assholes don't meditate. Oh no. Assholes, asshole or they can pretend to. Yeah. Or maybe they have like assholey meditations where they're just kind of focused on like their greed and stuff. Yeah. Fuck, fuck, fuck. I'm going to fucking take everything and murder Gandhi home. Money, money, money, money, money, money. I feel so good on my hands. Need money. Next he became known as the sex guru. All right. Because he was talking so much about how awesome sex is. In 19 steady he started taking on disciples. Now that now I'm finally starting to see this guy's side. Hello, everybody like fucking. Yeah. No, the deal is now instead we all fuck. I mean, all right. Can I get that pamphlet? Can I just take a look at that? That's pretty good. And what's your name? Sucky, Sucky. Yeah. We're going to fuck and then we will murder Gandhi. Okay. First we fuck. Then we stab him. So the disciples had to change their name, dress in orange and wear a locket with a picture of Rache Niche at all times. Hey, hey. Totally normal. Let me know when there's a red flag coming. The guy is like, hey, listen. I got you this. I want you to wear an outfit, but also everybody carries a little picture of me. All right. So sign there and there. And then come on the dick sucking tent. And then we'll go to the dick sucking tent. That's where I live. And I'm the only man allowed in there. A locket with your, I'm going to do that. Yeah. I'm going to buy 50 lockets and just give them to people in my picture inside of it. Will you start wearing this for me? Please? Uh, his followers started creating audio tapes, which began to be distributed worldwide. His number of Western followers increased. Well, it's the seventies. Okay. But is these, these audio tapes are about, I mean, he's really, but it's about more about fucking now. It's now it's a lot of it's about fucking. Okay. Yeah, he's sort of, well, he still does the capitalism science technology, you know, stuff, but he's people, he's about fucking a lot. Yeah. It's about fucking. Okay. Um, he then began group therapy at his ashram as a source of income. So someone bought him a big piece of property, one of the wealthy people. And now a source of income. So it's group therapy, group therapy groups were experimental, allowing physical aggression and sexual encounters between participants. Wow. That is, so that's a different kind of group. You know what? Uh, I feel weird and a little bit angry and all right. Why don't you finger Martha? You feel better? What finger Martha punched Jerry in the face, Martha, and then you're going to fight Jerry in that dirt circle. Okay. We're just, we're kind of working the kinks out. We're ironing it out. I'm going to go fuck your wife and the dick sucking time where I live. Um, reports of injuries sustained in group and counter sessions began to appear in the press. So good. So good. Press is happening. It was discovered that the therapy groups encourage participants to be violent. Fucking hit up. You take that shit. Did you hear what he said? You, Oh, you need to get your shit together. Break his fucking nose. Oh, jeez. I was under the impression. We were just kind of fucking. Oh really? You think you're going to walk out of here? Oh Jesus. One prominent member of the ashram, uh, left the ashram with a broken arm after eight hours locked in a room and the participants armed with wooden weapons. What the fuck? Okay. What the fuck? What? So he went to group therapy and a bunch of guys with bats beat the shit out of him and broke his arm for eight hours. Feel better? Good to get that off your chest. Still mad at your dad? Yeah. You don't miss your brother anymore. Do you? Um, the violence stopped in January, 1979 when the ashram issued a press release saying the violence had fulfilled its function within the overall context of the ashram as an evolving spiritual commune. Yeah. Okay. No more beating each other up. Okay. Cool. All right. Some guys like fuck. I just got here. Sorry buddy. We're evolving. God. Fuck. Can I get my dick sucked? Yeah. Your dick's going to get sucked. You're at the ashram. Come on. Of course your fucking dick's going to get sucked. Even if I got to do it. People who graduated from the ashram are called Sunny Asin. Sunny Asin. Sunny Asin. Sunny Asin. Sunny Asin. Sunny Asin. Sunny Asin. Sunny Asin. Sunny Asin. Sunny Asin. What's in this? Drug use among sunny asin's began to become a problem with some Western sunny asin's paid. Some Western sunny asin's paid for their extended stays in India's with prostitution and drug running. This was all approved by Rajneesh. Yeah. Rajneesh doesn't seem like he's a very good ashram leader. Hey, Rajneesh. So to stay here, to pay for my stay, well here's what I'm talking about. I got a bunch of I got some ladies that I captured nerda van okay, and I got some blow I'm listening and I'm gonna head out of the city I'm gonna I'm gonna get some dudes to fuck those ladies for like a hundred bucks each You know you're at an ashram right? Yeah, I'm gonna sell a blow and then I'm gonna give you the money This is a very good idea. Okay. Perfect. Let's do it. Yeah, let's do it. I just need some gas money. All right I'm gonna finger your wife. Okay. All righty. Thank you Come again, not actually my wife. What? 1981 what? Agnieszka's ashram hosted thirty thousand fitters visitors a year what? I'm picturing twelve people. No 30,000 yeah are going there to fuck fight and do drugs. Yeah and But a lot of them are going there like meditation and peace and love and so that's happening too. Yeah, okay But okay, but there's a bad element to it. Well, it's like it's mostly bad I think I'm highlighting the bad elements. Yeah, I'm sure I mean I guess maybe if I went through then then they go to the koi Larry went there and he touched a fish and he thought about flowers. Yeah, that's not okay So most of the 30,000 were American and European Now the any government was getting tired of of the bullshit that was happening there. Yeah, they revoked his tax-exempt status They stopped issuing visas to foreign visitors who were going to see him. So he decided to move his operations to Have you heard of Oregon I knew he was He's in the blood His second-in-command was a woman named Ma Anand Sheila, okay on June 13th 1981 Rajneesh bought the Big Muddy Ranch a 64,000 acre ranch near Antelope, Oregon for five point seven five million No, 64,000 acres huge huge and he just has all this money just because all these rich people are just kind of buying into His shit donating giving him tons of my right. Okay. Yeah It's the the the ranch is so big it spans two Oregon counties. What's a two-count here, huh? Yeah God holy shit. He did what up there Joe? That's right. The two counties You know what you want to do it make a left to go to the other county and that's where that's where that frisbee went Worst directions ever. Yeah, I was looking for a frisbee Okay, they expected to put up housing compounds warehouses and support buildings business enterprises one space in India would move to the ranch It all started happening But Sheila closed the deal quickly without checking Oregon law Turns out the state severely limits how many people and buildings can be placed on ranch land? An interesting curveball But it was too late hundreds of senees ins were on their way They told local officials they plan to operate a farm commune Workers would be brought in to restore abused rangeland which the organ was like, oh, that's cool But they needed building to house those workers Dan durrow a young county planner was intrigued by the idea of a farming Commune god he got taken advantage of huh the well they discussed how the ranch could legally house perhaps a hundred and fifty people Okay Durrow asked are you a religious organization? No said Sheila we celebrate life and laughter We are simple farmers at which point he probably went And so I was like, and we just hate Gandhi. Okay, did that did she say we celebrate life and laughter? Cuz this is Oregon and I'm gonna go get my stick So Durrow was like checking up on him all the time, okay, and he'd go there to me He'd see a house, but then if he went into the house, it would just be a big empty building with Mats all over the floor because there were shitloads of people but they made it look like it was a house, right? Yeah, four people are in there. Yeah, you go in there and that's weird. It looks like a lot of suitcases. It looks like there's a Human farming happening here You growing humans in here what's happening to get around the laws the Rajneesh is decided to form their own city Okay Well, I make a city out there. Okay, I think you can stop that. Yeah, well you can yes You can't just make a city. Why not? Because can't you just vote to have a city you can vote but the people have to vote the powers that be in Oregon We're like, no, yeah That's when the Rajneesh is started fighting with everyone, oh no debating Sheila's conduct troubled other Rajneesh leaders But she did everything with the guru's blessing and he listened to her first So she was the only person he really But she still didn't trust others in the compound. So she bugged the guru's house with hidden mics Hey, just a regular regular religious group hanging out Celebrating bugging The Rajneesh is then began a harassment campaign against the county and state officials harassment campaign against the county and state officials harassment campaign Two Rajneesh's parked in front of the house of Bill Hulse Wasco County Commissioner They just sat there for hours Dan Darrow the counting the counting planning director had pretty much had it with them and he decided to strictly follow the letter of The law when it came to land you so he was like, okay now you guys want to play ball You want to sit in front of people's houses and freak them out. You want to play leftovers? Then what we're gonna do is we're gonna we're gonna crack down and keep everything By the rule capiche. All right, the Rajneesh's were pissed At one point he was intrigued by that. Yeah Interesting idea a little calm. Yeah, I like this. I like this now. He's like no no So They'd be they went to meetings like planning meetings the town planning means and would yell at him Oh God, they would send letters to him. Just mean you're a fucking dick like just letters that were just ridiculous The Rajneesh's packs of Rajneesh's came to his office in the Dalles, which is a city near there Disrupting work by scattering throughout workstations off limbs to the public and just standing there What so they were just like come into your office. They're just like and then just hang they're like bugs They're like ghosts you can see All right Did he seem irritated when you stood there for eight hours? I could tell I was getting to him He didn't say anything, but I was getting to him Dura was so concerned that he sent his three children to live with his ex-wife out of town Then he then they really poured it on one Rajneesh. She put a nail under the tile tire of a Wasco County planner Well, he attended a conference in Eugene. I Mean, it's really Bush League shit. No, this is an intense campaign of harassment We're going to make his tire deflate. Okay. Does anybody have any ideas gun put your what you put your hand up Larry would you say yes, I was going to say um, maybe we take his junk mail I love it. You'll never be able to look at it Sheila held a courthouse door for water on his car Wait, you ready for a better one? Oh, no. Oh, no. She held the courthouse door open for the state's Deputy District Shut up His arms full of legal books as he passed she stuck out her foot and tripped him Oh my god, and then they all laughed so they're Monty Python Is essentially they're like Benny Hill. Yeah. Oh, I mean this is the best The Rajneesh is at this point Are on a harassment campaign? Stooges harassment campaign where they're standing They're popping a tire every now and then and they're just making someone like pick up documents Like at the end of the day the guy had to pick up things for three minutes. Yeah You'll never forget the Rajneesh is though Did you like high school say my name bitch? It's the Rajneesh is forget that when you're picking up your folders Oregon Attorney General pressed to have the sex city declared illegal That's a headline Sheila set up secret squads to strike at the commune's enemies Ma Anand Pooja was a nurse She was Sheila's shadow the two have been close since their time in India Pooja now supervised the ranch's medical department Occasionally Pooja retreated to a laboratory hidden in a cabin up in a canyon and the ranch To secretly experiment with viruses and bacteria well well That's not good That's not good at all to expect oh Jesus Christ Christ it's not yeah in the summer of 19 not a good thing to hear right now It's not a good thing to hear right now in the summer of 1984 Pooja field tested her work handing unlabeled vials to secret sect attack teams what the operatives knew or suspected the brown liquid was Salmonella which produces severe diarrhea and other symptoms These people aren't going to drink salmonella Over months they were dispatched to spread the poison in the Dalles the nearby big city They initially hope and hoped to sicken public officials standing in their way with diarrhea, I mean Are you ready for diarrhea? What? Pooja's mixture was spread onto fixtures in the men's room at the West Coast County courthouse One Russian each went to a political rally put some of the contaminant on her hand and turned to an elderly man sitting next to her And shook his hand okay This is so Bush your It's so Bush league like if you're spreading a virus You don't put it on your hand and shh it okay cool. Okay now we both have diarrhea Nice to meet you we both have diarrhea. Hi welcome to the world of diarrhea join me join me on my mission So have you changed your mind about the no I just no I just got to go to the bathroom a lot for about a day and a half Oh, yeah, remember our name bitch Remember our name bitch. We're doing it. We're doing it. How's your pooping going? Yeah, all right. Let's not great honest We knew it you were gonna poop for the next 30 hours pretty often Welcome to hell now give us our city Amazing yeah The plan is just this we take they're just very polite She tried her hand at contamination as well Taking half dozen raja niches including puja to a grocery store in Dallas Let's have some fun that Sheila said the group spread across the store with Sheila targeting the produce section pouring brownish liquid from the vial she had hidden up her sleeves But there were no public reports of people getting sick. That's even worse. There was no big headline in the local paper saying diarrhea destroys city Like there there never is a headline about no one's like hey diarrhea really went crazy because it's irritating It's just it's just a bunch of people and no one no one goes to work you man I really had diarrhea yesterday. Yeah, so no one did the one thing that no one talks about So everybody had diarrhea and nobody wanted to tell each other they have diarrhea. Yeah, something's wrong with my stomach Yeah, I'm just not feeling too. Oh, yeah, I'm a bug going on cuz I got a little something weird, too Damn it raja niches. They think it's a bug Jesus Christ Salmonella and if you're on this compound, I mean you do not want to be one of the people pulled you're like so we need six To go drink some salmonella like just wipe it on your face and kiss people. Okay, I might go home soon I Don't know this isn't what I thought what I thought at all Remember when we were fucking and fighting that was fun. That was really fun. I love that remember we broke Jerry's arm That was hilarious. Good time now. We're just drinking chicken. Did you know we gave Jerry diarrhea? Yeah, I know. Yeah, but his arms broken. He talked about that is a great cult So she looked so Sheila pushed puja to find a more toxic solution Okay, dear. I don't like that around the same time three wasco county commissioners arrived at the ranch on for a tour They parked outside the commune's welcome center and loaded into a commune van for their visit when they got back the car had a flat Well, it's been going around Why don't you touch it touch the brown liquid on the tire and see what's wrong with it the rash niches Arranged a repair on the spot that would cost $12 We've landed You can pay 12 to fix it. Wait, there's is there more to what they just did? They flattened the tire and then they just got them a cheap and then and then and then they came out and said we'll fix The flat for 12 bucks. Wow, these people are animals. These people are absolute animals Savages, but we're probably just like, okay. You really got it. Yeah, there's a nail in it. Oh, we'll fix it right now Okay, you guys are literally the worst literally As the commissioners waited in the hot August sun puja approached offering each a glass of water Her gesture was odd Yeah, because puja was in her medical whites and had no role as a greeter. She wouldn't even fucking change No, she basically had her murder clothes. She just comes from lab to person Hey, here's a mixture. Try this water in this beaker They were really thirsty so they drank the water. Oh boy that night unbearable stomach pain woke up commissioner bill hols He ran for the bathroom vomiting. He was admitted to the local hospital Another of the county commissioners stayed in bed alone in his cabin violently ill for two days Holstered man in the hospital for four days with doctors telling him he would have died without treatment as he recovered at home later He concluded the region issues had poisoned him and he said so publicly The regin issues denied it but the sex leaders hoped sickening public officials would deter future decisions against their operation Yeah, they'll just stop taking water from you dumbass No, no, they'll be like, okay, I got really bad diarrhea And I threw up and you can have your city. All right, you know what you win well played You played the long game well I Mean this is how trump got his plaza. Alrighty. Now you're going to let us have our sexity Meanwhile Sick of buying toilet paper. Aren't you? The guru rajneesh pushed for even more extreme acts He wanted his people to get a seat on or get control of the county's board of commissioners boy One of the rush niches shed her orange clothes made herself look like a normal person and moved to the dallas intending to run for city council To get elected the rush niches had a two-part plan Oh, I mean amazing I'm equally excited for each part One was to depress the turnout by traditional Waska county residents by by sickening them Jesus the first the first plan one is to sit in election canceled due to diarrhea The second was to pack the rolls with new voters loyal to the rush niche Okay They decided to attack people where they ate the restaurants of the dallas a young woman named Mana and ava was driven to town Stopped at one restaurant after another going to the restaurant And poisoned food this is an insane thing That they're doing they're going to they're going to suppress a vote by giving people I mean At some point somebody had to bottom line it they had to be like, what would you put it like that? It sounds crazy if pepdo bismo had taken advantage of this And use it as a campaign and they could be the voting day medicine. Yeah. Hey, it's election day Did you take a pepto or a pepto ran? God damn it. I mean, okay wearing a wig It's so good It's so good They're going to restaurants in fucking probably awful wigs did glasses glasses. Yeah, like groucho groucho glasses Hello My name is smith smitherton. Can I look in the kitchen? Puget went on a separate mission pouring liquid on the salad greens Terry Turner a local furniture store owner took his wife and two-year-old to a sunday brunch at a restaurant on the banks of the color Columbia river they enjoyed a casual meal opting for the salad bar across the across town State trooper rick carlton had the day off He took his wife three-year-old son and four-month-old baby to a downtown restaurant after a meal that included a trip through the salad bar They drove home the next morning both men were violently ill so were Turner's young daughter and carlton's son turn her head to the medical clinic only discover a waiting room filled with people just as ill When carlton arrived home, he found his wife and son as sick as him Hundreds of people were sick Hospital emergency rooms and medical clinics clinics overflowing with people who were sick In the hospital, they were all suspected of being roshniysh Everybody was like okay, so let's kill them Yeah, so at this point they I mean they just noticed the people who give people diarrhea So when there's a huge diarrhea outbreak, they're like, yeah, we know these fucking morons So We didn't we had no idea no, I just went to the salad bar. We loved it I have my own dressing. Oh, yes, you should try it. It's called salmander Balsamo a state health official Famously concluded that restaurant workers in different restaurants had all ignored proper hygiene at the same time. That's That's Equally true. I mean, it's also a troubling thing Not surprising either the standards of action The brilliant planning of sheila continued the roshniysh's chartered buses in cities coast to coast and filled them with homeless people They lured the homeless people to the buses by promising Food beer and rest as the homeless came to the ranch. They were obliged to register to vote Oh my god, they were expected to vote party ticket when it came time to pick the new county commissioners Wait, let me ask you something Now so they gave everyone diarrhea and there was no vote So they did that I think it was a test run Amazing So you get the homeless people and then you do the diarrhea campaign Right. Well, I think they wanted to bring in the homeless later because it would cost them less money to house them Right up until the election. So really this last diarrhea run was just for fun. It was a test diarrhea run TD Tdr there was a bit of a problem with the plan though It turns out that a lot of homeless people have serious mental problems now I won't stand here and let you say something like that. That's sweeping fights began to break out. Well, they love that to Right. Yeah It's the old days So to regain control roshniysh's injected the tranquilizer halal doll into beer kegs used to serve the homeless What the fuck is going on? So they were just getting them drunk Yeah, and then they started fighting and then they're like, well, let's put halal doll in this shit. Jesus christ. I mean just put the fire out Halal doll is like a serious tranquilizer I mean they they bust all these homeless people to their commune and then we're sick of them fighting They give them beer and then drug them and they drug them Well, the homeless began to leave the ranch both because they wanted to and because the sec couldn't take it into their home They were like, oh my god, I'm gonna get a drink I'm gonna go where there's nothingness again. I hate it here. Oh, I want to lay face down on cement like I used to yeah I'm not eating salads anymore either because my god, they go right through me At first they got bus tickets to return to their home cities But that was so expensive that roshniysh's soon stopped that and then they started to get drunk again They were like, oh my god, I'm gonna get a drink. I'm gonna get a drink They were like, oh my god, I'm gonna get a drink they returned to their home cities but that was so expensive that roshniysh's soon stopped that instead they drove the homeless to small towns near the commune and just left them Like recyclables like things of trash Like when you when you take down when you take apart something and you don't want to throw it out You just drive to the middle of nowhere. You're like, there we go. Run It's also these small towns in oregon So all of a sudden these small towns in oregon are filling up with homeless people. So everybody's like all we're doing is shitting There's more homeless people. Can we just fucking kill the roshniysh's like like, wait, you brought India here? Yeah. What did you do? You literally got thrown out of India and brought it here. It became a legitimate crisis. Now state and local authorities were worried. They started to get worried that local residents would attack the commune. The Oregon State Police and the National Guard devised contingency plans with guard commanders promising the governor they could mobilize 10,000 soldiers if necessary. Why? I wouldn't defend them. I know, you might want to wait a little while. I mean, you just have to let it play out a little bit. You're thinking more of like a roadhouse approach. Yeah. I'm saying, listen, these people put salmonella in the salad bar. That's fine. They just want to increase the homeless population. Protect them. You know the cops were like, yeah, I'm going to, if you guys need to go out there, I'm going to wait a little bit. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Sheila thought the crisis was the perfect time to meet with the governor and attorney general. So now we can do some negotiating. Exactly. She figured her genius plans were in motion, and the government would negotiate and let her have her way. She thought she had leverage. I have 60 homeless people who are going to move here the second I say go. Hey, do you want homeless people everywhere and other people shitting? OK, then you'll do what I want. Yeah, so. This is how World War II ended. A lot of people don't know that. Yeah, this is the same way. The governor sent his staff. Stop shitting. The governor sent her staff to meet with her. She met with chief of staff Geraldine Thompson. She launched into her demands. She wanted the governor to help clear visa troubles so her guru could avoid deportation. She wanted the state to drop its court case, seeking to disband their city of Rajneeshpuram. And she wanted land use obstacles removed so their compounds construction could continue. In turn, she said that Rajneeshs would help get rid of the homeless. Yeah, OK, thanks. So listen, all the people we brought in, we'll take them out. We know the key. You just give us a permanent base of operations. So deal? Deal? Thompson said no deal. Sheila started swearing at her. Thompson screamed at her that the meeting was over, and Sheila left. Somebody's going to have a flat tire. Then Kishna Deva, a high up sunny Eason, poked his head back into the office and told Thompson, just keep talking to us. The two set up a private link. And from then on, Thompson kept the government informed of the most intimate details of what was happening at the ranch, including the escalating danger. Because the Rajneeshs were now fracturing and the compound was coming apart. So now they're having inner fighting because of this shit. Because there's people on the ranch going, I don't think we should give people diarrhea. I really thought this was going to be better. I thought meditation and peace and love and fucking stuff. It was a really great idea. Diarrhea was not in the pamphlet. That was not in the pamphlet. Was that we were going to be going to grocery stores diarrheaing aisles. Sheila and her elite group became worse at the commune. She secured loyalty with privileges no one else in the commune had. She'd give private rooms cars and special clothing. They began to see themselves within the commune as a bigger threat than those outside. So now they're seeing the people who don't believe in what they're doing as the threat. So now they're, I mean, it's like. Yeah. Everybody's becoming an enemy. It's like a cocaine party, an hour 18. Yeah, totally. You just got your heavy hitters left. Really? Why are you looking at me like that, Jerry? I mean, fuck you, man. I didn't say anything. I was talking about opening up coin shops. Mark's not breathing. They were scared the guru would be attacked by vigilantes or arrested by authorities. Mostly they feared losing their special place in the sect. The vast majority of the Seneisans on the commune were just going about their day during all this, doing their daily work, meditating and devising a life intended to be a global model. Most didn't like Sheila or her paranoia. Many were embarrassed by her public flip outs. But they said nothing because doubters or challengers were punished. One of the commune's top lawyers crossed Sheila and soon found himself driving a bulldozer. I'm sorry? I love that he was one of the lawyers who joined the sect. And he crossed her. And she put him on bulldozer duty. But wouldn't you just be like, I'm not going to do that? Yeah, let me just open this little pin and leave the gate. Bye, assholes. Man, I've got to bulldoze now. They actually can't do that because complaining Seneisans were kicked off the commune. The problem was that to get to the commune in the first place, they had sold all their possessions and donated all their money to the sect and cut off all ties to family and friends. So basically, if they leave the sect, they're homeless. Dave, you go all in when you've got a flush. You don't fucking go in with a seven high. I mean, that's on them then. I mean, that's ridiculous. Yeah. By late night. If you do that, when it's starting to turn, you're mentally like, oh, boy. I mean, it just seems like all we're doing is giving people diarrhea. I had a Mercedes. Fuck. Fuck. And a family. I had a wife and kids. I miss my kids. God, I had a job. It was a great job. I used to play racquetball. Hey. Now I'm giving people diarrhea. Less talk, more bulldoze. Fucking bitch. By late 1994, Sheila and her little group were basically nuts. They saw eyes and mics everywhere. And they didn't trust anyone. To keep going, Sheila Ride was relying on a bunch of medications. For anxiety, she was using a drip line for sedation. Holy shit. So they're basically this small group of drugged out lunatics. But I mean, having your own drip is Michael Jackson shit? I mean, that is some heavy shit. Yeah, that's fucking crazy. Pills won't do. In this awesome state, Sheila decided that county planner Dan Durow couldn't act against the commune if his office was destroyed. She decided to burn it down. Fair. Around midnight, two San Esans were dropped near Durow's office. They pried open a window, crawled inside, and closed the drapes. They rifled through the cabinets and desks, scattering government papers all about. Then they placed eight candles inside cardboard squares soaked with lighter fluid. The pair intended the candles to act as timers, igniting the cardboard. Once, and then it would burn the hole. The two arsonists lit the candles, crept back out the windows, and closed the window. But that starved the candles of oxygen. Oh, Mike, I was praying. I was praying they'd fuck up burning an office with their fire. Just fucking gas in a match. How hard is it? Only two fires started. Firefighters quickly extinguished the flames before much damage was done. And their fingerprints are all over the flames. The heat melted part of the planning department's main computer, but the hard drive was intact. Some papers were burned. Others damaged by water. Durow and his crew are back in business within two weeks. That May, hearing there was a conference at the state library in Salem about improper construction of the ranch, a Roshniash contaminated unattended drinking water with an overdose of Haldol. So on one day, the state's chief electrician inspector got sick. The next day, Assistant Attorney General Karen Green had trouble during questioning as her jaw froze shut. When the session ended for the day, Green's two block walk to her office became a half hour ordeal. Her feet and legs, coarsed with Haldol, cramped so much that she froze in place. What? Well, it's like a heavy duty tranquilizer. Can you imagine watching that from a distance? What is going on? Is she being filmed? Is somebody filming her? Are people in slow motion now? I just share. Hey, Karen, you just standing around? My oil can. Oh, wait, I saw this episode of Star Trek. It's like some people are going fast and other people are. Err. Can you smell me? OK. I don't want to talk to you anymore. Gonna go. Taxi! Get in this cab. Could you imagine just frozen in place? What? Your head. Shockingly, the poisons didn't alter the outcome. On Hollywood Boulevard, you get like a buck. So I'm going to be like, that's awesome. Thank you. Way to go. That was really good. The hearing's offer proposed a $1 million fine against the commune for illegal wiring. So just not even enough. I mean, get him out of there. Now, federal prosecutors began investigating the Rajneeshis for immigration fraud. A grand jury was convened, and word was that the guru himself would face criminal charges. On the state front, the attorney general was winning round after round in his effort to declare Rajneeshpuram an illegal city. The commune's entire legal staff advised the guru the case was lost. But the guru told them to keep going and win. Losing the case meant losing the city and the worldwide base for Rajneesh. So they're like, it's over, dude. He's like, no. He's like Hitler. He's like, get in the bunker. We're going to keep bombing. Cornered wasp. Yeah. Sting. Sheila then went on a business trip to Australia. She completely botched a business deal. Sheila did? Yeah. Wow. Using her usual method of drugging and eavesdropping, Sheila manipulated her. Can we just isolate that and say how great that is? Her usual method? That's her usual method. Yes, what do we do? I do drugging and eavesdropping. Yeah, that's kind of my forte. That's my thing. That's what I love to do. Sheila manipulated her way into part ownership of a public company. But as soon as word got out about the second ownership, the company value plummeted overnight. The move cost the commune nearly $1 million. Oh, my god. And now they're at $2 million. Oh, boy. Then they lost a case. Some guy sued them. Some guy who had given them a loan, and then he left the sect, and then he sued them for $1.7 million, and he won that. So now they're down $3.7 million. He better not be eating at salad bars every time. Are you going to eat salad? I love salad. Why? Just curious. Here's your money. Here's your words, and here's some salad dressing. Oh, this actually smells pretty good. Thank you, Resnice. I'm glad we could end on friendly terms. OK. Well, I got to go. When she got back to the commune, Resnice was focused on one thing. What do you think he was focused on? With all going on, what do you think he's focused on? Drugs. Sex. He wanted to expand his fleet of Rolls Royces. Can you imagine being like, so when we really, it's a two-prong attack, and we're really going to, you know, I should probably get two more Rolls Royces. It was like a nice big car. Yeah, nice big. Like a new. I love a Rolls. I love a Rolls. I like one now. We don't have any money, Resnice. I like a Rolls. But let's get Rolls Royces. I like a big Rolls. He had a new plan. He wanted to make it into the record books as the man with the most Rolls Royces. Oh my god. What the fuck? I mean, if you were a follower, if you had given up everything, you don't talk to your child anymore. You think about your wife. You have no money. You had a job. We have a new goal. A new goal. Love, sex, all that. Yes, we've been dying for a purpose. Thank you. Great fucking cars. Did you say cars? The best. The best. The Rolls Royces. All of them. All of them. I'm going to have so many. Now the validation will not come from the sky. It will come from the Guinness Book. I'm going to have so many. So many. So many Rolls Royces. For so many people, they must have just been like, my god. OK, so this awesome idea was costing the commune $200,000 a month. And he was also demanding one. It's happening? Yeah. It's the guru. He was also demanding a $1 million watch, telling her to divert funds from the commune's needs if necessary. What? Look at my wrist. It looks so normal. Yeah, I would like it. I found a watch. We don't have any money. We spend it all on Rolls Royces, like you asked. Better than a swatch. Better than a swatch? Swatch, yeah. It's a $1 million watch. Oh my god. The guru would like it. I had a life. I put it on my penis. You put it on. Made me in the dick sucking tent for the watch ceremony. Sheila called a meeting of commune leaders. She was in a very dark mood. Are you people cowards or are you Sante Isans of Baguanshri Rajnees, she asked. I'd be like, one more time. I'm a coward. Go from the beginning. What are the options? I heard I'm going to go with coward. The first one I know. I'm definitely a coward. She said the commune's enemies had to be stopped. They had to be killed. The leaders with her that night included the president of the commune, its investment corporation, and its medical operation. The mayor of the sex city was there, as were a handful of operatives who had secretly executed most of Sheila's plots. After Sheila spoke, another leader gave one amount to a pep talk. Supporting Sheila's starting call to action. I would love, I would give anything, I would give anything to travel back in time and be able to hear that pep talk. OK. Who knows anything about diarrhea? All right, guys. Listen, I know it's been a crazy ride, huh? We used to fuck, we used to fight. The diarrhea phase. But here we are at the other end, building towards the dream of having more Rolls Royces than anywhere else. And a fucking hot ass watch. All right. Let's kill some motherfuckers. Get them in. Get them in. One woman raised her hand. I can't kill anybody, but I support you if you do it. Cool. Two men protested that the idea of murder wasn't sound, insane. They were attacked as cowards. The meeting went on to drop a hit list. Sheila went to the guru to help encouraging the people, the participants. She returned with a tape of her conversation. The commune insiders heard Rajne say that if 10,000 had to die to save one enlightened master, so be it. Well, the one enlightened master wants more Rolls Royces than anyone else. That's right. That's an issue. You know it. Their top target was Charles Turner, the US attorney for Oregon, because he was investigating immigration fraud at the commune. Sheila would probably be charged. Sheila figured killing Turner would somehow end the investigation. Like all of her other plans had worked the same way. Yeah. No, she's got really good plans. Yeah. Always has. So she decided to gun him down. She's just going to straight up gun him? Yeah. How is she going to kill people? Kind of like a salad murder. I think they've tried salad murder. Maybe like a salmon murder. Murder through by salmon or something. They set up a safe house in Portland, which became the base for scouting Turner's home. On one occasion, he was killed by a man who was on the run. On one occasion, two assassins sat in a McDonald's in downtown Portland across from Turner's office sipping coffee and monitoring his movements. They considered gunning him down in the parking garage, but couldn't figure an easy way to escape. Jesus. Yeah. Dave Froehmeyer, the state attorney general, was targeted as well. Also on the list was James Comini, a Wasco County commissioner who had been critical of the Rajneesh's. To St. Vincent Hospital on a summer night in 1985, she was there to kill Comini, who was recuperating from ear surgery at the Portland Hospital. She carried a syringe to inject a mixture into Comini's intravenous tube that would stop his heart. But once inside Comini into the hospital, into his room, police discovered her target wasn't on an IV. So she ran from the hospital to a getaway car. Oh my god. Wow. Talk about cool under pressure, huh? No IV bag. Run! I got in there! It was so fucked up! God damn it. He's alive? He didn't have an IV. There wasn't a tube thing. Well, just jam it with a duffer, for fuck's sake. There wasn't a tube thing. There wasn't a tube thing? He didn't have any salad? I didn't know what to do. I didn't know how to kill him. What did you do? Oh, I ran. I ran right out of there. They were on to me. Yeah, they have cameras in there, a lot of them. Next, the group decided to kill two of the guru's personal staff, his doctor and his caretaker. What the fuck? I mean, now, like, we were just talking about estate officials. All right, fuck it, kill my doctor. That didn't work. Let's kill the guru's doctor. Kill my doctor. And the person who takes care of him. You know the people that keep him healthy? Out! Out of there. Then we'll show him who's got the most Rolls Royces or whatever the fuck this is all about. Sheila convinced the others that the two were a threat to the guru. The assignment fell to kill Vivek, who is the doctor, went to Ma Anand Ava and Ma Anand Su, president of the sex investment firm. It's so fucking. The sex investment. The investment firm. We're sex festers. It's what we do. Oh, god. The two set out late one night to catch Vivek in her room. They carried an ether soaked rag to render her unconscious. The plan was for Ava to inject her with a lethal combination of potassium and adrenaline. OK. They never got the chance because they couldn't unlock Vivek's rear door. OK. So really what we're dealing with here is just, I mean, they can't, they just can't do anything. There are so many roadblocks. I mean, they just like. There's so many hard things. These people don't have the killer instinct. No, but it's they do. But it's so hard to get through doors. Yeah. Well, especially when we're talking about murder. Doors locked. He really thought everything. All right, let's get a pizza. I mean, honestly, no IV bag. I'm going to jump out the window. OK, so that was the caretaker they tried to kill that way. Next they went to kill. By the way, once the door is locked, you'll never see that person again. So that's why it won't work. That's right. No, you can't ever do it. No, you get one chance. Next, they went to kill the guru's British doctor. The intent came the morning of July 6th, 1985, when the commune was full of Sunnisins visiting for the annual World Festival. Oh, we all remember the annual World Festival. So great. Great shirt. Robes off. Robes optional. The World Fest. During a dance in the lecture hall, the doctor was sitting cross-legged on the floor. Then a woman named Ma Shanti Badra leaned over his shoulder and whispered in his ear. He felt a hot sting in his buttock. She jabbed him with a miniature syringe concealed by her handkerchief. He whirled on her, oh, so this is what it's come to, has it? And he got to his feet. He made it out of the lecture hall and was flown to Bend Hospital here, nearly died from the injection of adrenaline. This is, again, it's hard to not sound like you're pro-killing these people. Just from a tactical standpoint, what is the point of injecting him with something that will murder him and then letting him get anywhere near where he can be rescued? There were some problems with the plans. Yeah, there's a lot of problems with the plans. Well, I love that, like, OK, we're going to just stop. We're going to kill this guy. There's no follow through. No, they just have one person go do it, and they don't all make sure it is done. They feel probably like these people will piece it together. They'll know what to do when they get there. But they don't. They just don't do it. The door's locked. They can't get in. Well, he's going to call 911. Did you let him? Yeah. Yeah, I did. I didn't know what else to do. Once he picked up the phone, it was over. He called, and they're pissed. I'm going to be arrested. It's crazy. The attack was a shock. Up to now, the episodes that seemed like pranks are justified acts of self-defense. But now the Russian issues had tried to kill one of their own. The guru ordered Bada to be drugged in question, an order Sheila ignored. Yoda Vidya, one of the commune's top executives, had fought Sheila in private about the murder plans. Sheila blew her off, but kept Vidya loyal by threatening to kill her husband. Finally, Vidya snapped. She made her way to Sheila's room, interrupting a meeting. It's got to stop. I can't take all this talk of killing anymore. I can't stand it. I can't stand it, she said. Then she collapsed on the floor convulsing and crying. Sheila summoned Bada from an adjoining room, asking her to convidya. Bada snapped too. I will not kill anybody. No one will be killing anybody. The turning point had come. The party was over. The murder plots ended, as did other dirty tricks. Soon after Labor Day 1985, Sheila quit her post at the ranch and fled to Europe with selected tape conversations involving the guru, sect promissory notes, and miniature hypodermic needles, such as the one used to attack the doctor. A dozen of her allies also quit and joined her in Germany. So she took evidence that could ruin the guru and bailed. The ranch quickly fell apart. At a news conference, the guru described a litany of crimes he attributed to Sheila and her gang. Both Oregonians and Rajneeshis were stunned. Two of Sheila's most trusted insiders struck deals with the state investigators. One was the Rajneesh Pura mayor. I love that there's a mayor. The titles they gave them in their little bullshit town. Yeah, I was fucking crazy. Chief executive of horseshit. That's right. You get to wear the orange hat. That's right. I absolutely do. And this is my supervisor. He has the yellow glove. Welcome to the weird place. He's the Chezure of that pasture. How are you? Good. Both gave lengthy statements that astonished investigators. The summary of one statement given over eight days was 96 pages. Oh my god. In the coming months, one Senesean went to court admitting criminal conduct on behalf of the sect. Pooja and Bada struck deals that included federal prison time. They admitted to the attempted murder, poisoning two county officials, setting fire to a county office, and setting up an elaborate wiretapping network on the commune's telephone system. The guru attempted to escape on a charter jet but was caught in North Carolina as he was about to leave the country. He was hauled back to Portland in handcuffs, booked into a jail like a common criminal. He ordered his lawyers to cut a quick deal and he was soon deported as a convicted felon guilty of immigration crimes. Rajneeshi corporations went bankrupt, poisoning victims sued, and the state pressed the case against the city of Rajneeshpuram. The insurance company holding the ranch's mortgage foreclosed. Selling the ranch to a wealthy Montana rancher, he turned into a camp for Young Life, a Christian youth organization. Rajneesh ended up in India. He renamed himself Osho. He died in 1990, but the faithful kept alive his teachings running meditation centers across the world. So they still have. His teachings? They still have Rajneesh meditation centers. But his teachings were great. There was no teachings. No, they were good. No, they were good. They were good. They were good. Fucking that tent, beat that guy up, poisoned some people. Yeah, those are good teachings. I mean, 10,000 people can die for one of me. Somebody open to diarrhea 110, please. And then we'll go on until we get to many cars. Man to the Rolls Royce, Book of Rolls. And of course, the final book, Oh, What a Watch. Revelations. Holy shit. Elsewhere, some of the most deeply involved faded back into civilian life, giving no clue to their former allegiance to the sect. So people just kind of went back to their lives. That never happened. What was I doing last year? I mean, this was out, just a lot of golfing. I mean, golfing and a lot of salad bars. How are you guys? What are you up to? You talk about you. Sheila and Pooja were sentenced to 24-year jail terms in federal prison. OK. They served their time in a white collar prison. Sheila was released after two and a half years and immediately left for Switzerland. So she was released after two and a half years. She was sent into. Yeah, 24. I mean, that's just it's probably be honestly, probably again, because she was just such an asshole. You know, shut her the fuck up. You're ruining the prison. She says she's going to go to Switzerland. Just let her leave. She left for Switzerland on the 13th of December 1988. Oregon wanted her charged with her a bunch. They wanted Oregon wanted to charge her a shitload of crimes. But the Justice Department never told them that they were releasing her. So she just because Oregon were like, we could put her in jail forever. Yeah. So she just got to she poisoned shitloads of people. Yeah. She had to kill people. Two and a half years. Kill many people. She married a Swiss Sunnys. And because of her marriage to a Swiss citizen, Sheila gained immunity from extradition from future charges, including those related to the 1985 plot to assassinate US prosecutor Charles Turner. In Switzerland, Sheila started a new profession owning and managing two nursing homes. Oh my god. No. Why'd you do it like that? Oh my god. That's the real ending. Oh shit. Two nurse. Oh man. How do you feel? I mean, that last part's troubling. There's a secondary doll up there. That is the funniest fucking thing. Yeah, they really swung for the fences. Really. They really. It's amazing that the sect didn't bring in one guy who knew how to kill people. Like one, like a CIA guy or ex-military. I mean, could you imagine when they came back and were like, yeah, but his door's locked. So? Did you just break into Jimmy's? No, we jimmied it, but it's like totally locked. Right. But did you go through the window? We came right here. So would you try the front door or the windows? No, we didn't. We should have. We totally should have. Yeah, but one door is locked. OK. OK, fair. Yeah. Yeah. All right, cool. Thanks. See you later. Thank you. Thanks so much. Almost murder. Almost. We almost got that guy. And that was it. Yeah. All right. Well, we can't ever try again. Let's get the doctor. Well, that's murder the doctor now. Yeah. I remember when I was really young, this was like a story. And I remember seeing pictures of the people in their robes and like a Rolls Royce driving. Rolls Royce? Yeah, he would drive and wave at them in his Rolls Royce, drive to the ranch and wave at them. Oh, I kind of know the imagery of this a little bit. Yeah, once you see the pictures, you go, oh, I've seen those pictures. Right, OK. Yeah, the Rolls Royce with the hand waving to the people. Yeah. And there's a great, she was interviewed by an Australian reporter when she was in Australia. And it's such a fucking great interview. And I'll post it on, he just goes right after. Good, yeah. She gets so fucking mad. I'll post them on the Facebook page. Please leave a review if you like the show on iTunes. That helps us out a lot. And we are at the dollop on Twitter. And we are on Facebook. And there is actually a subreddit of the dollop. If you did not listen to Rainbow Man, the audio has been fixed as best it can. And I'm going to put it back up. So you can go back and redownload that. And that will be good. Anything else? No. Sorry, sorry. No more salad bars. Hi, everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the Dollop Podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up. July 22 through the 25th, I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin. August 5th, I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live. Then I'll be at the Rally Improv, August 6 through the 8th. And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas, August 19th. Join me there. Or join me the next night, August 20th, at the State Theater in Austin or Texas, if that doesn't work for you. Join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas. And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington, August 26th. The following night I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club, August 27th. Go to garethreynles.com to get tickets for all those dates. I love you.