 I Welcome to the pocket the pocket I mean that can't I'll tell you That's the new one. That's a new what it's the new song. No, there's none of these are songs Then they never come to fruition. There's nothing that there's already an intro and Sometimes you sing it and most times you don't Welcome to the podcast podcast the podcast And just it doesn't pretty uh, it doesn't make any sense inviting. It's not inviting. It's friendly. It's off-putting It's lovely. It's awful. I'm Dave Anthony. I'm here with Gary Reynolds We are doing a podcast called the dollop if you're a first-time listener, you should go back and listen to the other ones. Yeah I'm gonna suck wait. No, I'm kidding Do me a favor go to another one cuz this is gonna be brutal we get a lot of We do get a lot of people recommending them. Yeah, I say some of them are really great. Some of them are too like hey, man This is like this truck in a thing. Yeah, sometimes it's just like a like one story. Yeah, that's yeah, not an hour Yeah And then there's one thing I have to tell people I'm not I'm not gonna do anything about Serial killers because people always say me. Hey, what about the baby killer of France? I'm like, I don't want to talk about the baby killer Ferguson was hard enough to Hilarious. Yeah, you know, it's funny baby death like Like so there'll be no There'll be no anything about serial killers or Or, you know fucking rapists or anything like it's gonna be Most it's not funny. It's not funny. Yeah But I do understand why people think it's interesting for sure Like there are some interesting serial killer stories, but it's not once you get into that idea that people actually being murdered. It's yeah. Yeah Takes a little thought out of it for the most part. We won't talk about politics and this is a crazy crazy story I might do one about that. There's some there's some Mississippi election. I don't know if you've heard about it, but it's fucking insane Oh boy, what's been happening? I'm sure it's all good And so but in so unless it's a rare occasion will probably avoid politics Right. Yeah, I mean, yeah, I am like some stuff dips its toe in the pool anyway, but yeah directly Yeah, yeah, but I love that. I love that you guys are sending in suggestions. It's very helpful I've definitely gotten a few that I will be doing out of those So appreciate it. This is one of those already So this is probably the baby killer this is about a this is about a we murdering today on the podcast It's not a man who killed 19,000 Ah, let's dip into it. I finally had like a morning zoo noise. Yeah. Yeah. Oh The USS William D Porter was a Fletcher class destroyer in the US Navy Navy not the name Oh, the name is harder. It's so different. Yeah Named after Commodore William D Porter. I would have guessed that William Porter served during the US Civil War and once steered His ship to safety even though he was blind and severely burned by a pierced boiler. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Yeah That's a fucking hero, right? I mean steered a ship blindly while on well He was blinded so the boiler blew up and like burned him and and as he couldn't see but he still steered his ship It's a very crazy thing to be able to do. Well, I don't think you can do it But someone must have been like, okay turn left. Oh, yeah. Hey, why don't you let me take over? My boat my boat Right right right right right Hard right harder, right? I don't know where I am my eyes It's an important point because I think it relates the story of William Porter very much relates to the ship The way things go with the ship. Well, you okay blind is a perfect The ship was known by the as the Willie D by the crew little nickname love it man with a D Where you going going back to the Willie D? Yeah. Yeah Yeah, girl, like yeah, it was one of hundreds of destroyers the US built in a hurry during World War two That's a very we got yeah, we got to get a she we had some ships together. That's fast fast fast ships It was put into service in July 1943 with a crew of 125 men now because It was World War two Obviously a lot of a lot of people were shipping Out and going off and fighting. Yeah, two fronts, right? Yep, and then you've got all the Navy ships So there weren't a lot of experienced men to go around sure right because it's not like we had Building the ships fast they were making the troops fast if we're building a hundred ships That doesn't mean we had hundreds of experienced guys hanging out now I don't think we still crack that nut no, it's attitude first Everything else second. Yeah, don't think yeah So there are 125 men on the ship on the Willie D on the Willie D And aside from a few experienced hands most were in high school or working on a farm when the ship was being built That's good, because I'm sure they're ready to Yeah, get just get out ready go to war. Yeah, let's do it. What do you know about potatoes? It's the same thing except instead of stabbing spuds. You're gonna be stabbing Nazis From the boat. Yeah Okay, all righty So it was basically like a college frat around a ship Oh, okay picture this. Okay. Yeah, all right That sounds fun Yeah, the Navy sounds fun the Navy is fun the name II not fun name II is not fun Oh, don't know maybe They didn't have a lot of time for training I Can't just not good not a good not a good thing to hear feel like that will come back Why you like we will hear about that again? Why well because it's just not good It's not good, but you put a bunch of dudes on a boat and you go go get them Yeah, not good. What do they have to learn? A lot of things the tremendous amount of it and oh what like turning and turning. Yeah You just like graze over it is very important Shooting the guns. Yeah guns. Yeah, there's a lot to me. It's not just steering There's a lot to maintain put the boat. Have you ever taken when you were a kid? Did you ever take a plastic boat and like put it in a stream? I'm not even gonna answer this. Okay I'm not even gonna answer a fucking thing. No, it's not It's the exact same thing playing with the Willie D in a bathtub I play with my willy D in the bathtub. All right move on so After four months in the water of training the Willie D was assigned to one of the most critical and super secret missions The Navy had ever undertaken so I mean Like there it is. I know exactly where we are. I know exactly Why we're doing it I get it because of what you just said what you just said is everything It's that's what this is all about. Right? This is about the super secret mission. A bunch of idiots went on, right? So what what you wouldn't do is like, yeah Hey, let's get a bunch of experienced guys on a ship to go on the super secret mission. No just go Rockies. Yeah, the rookies have a little fun. Come on. Let's take these guys out. See what they got We got a good feeling about the Willie D Time for a super secret mission. Okay Yeah, that should be the attitude President Roosevelt was traveling to French, North Africa to meet with Churchill Stalin and Chinese General Reese Mill. Shane Kai Shek No one was to know about the trip until the commander-in-chief arrived safely. I Mean, I don't know What's about to happen? But I also don't like they had they had planes. Isn't it? Yeah, there's no is that what is about to happen? No, but I think it's such a crazy idea that that With with all the planes that are out there that they could have flown on Yeah, that they would take a chance when all those German subs are out there But they were all going to go to France and they would take a chance to go to the countries that were out there And they would have to fly to the countries that they could have flown on Yeah, that they would take a chance when all those German subs are out there fucking shooting up ships constantly How long does it take to it's like I think it was like I think it's like seven or eight days It's not that long, but it's still going across the crazy waters Yeah, hey, let's not fly I mean I were they shooting planes at it like it seems like you could fly And it's time. I mean eight days to have where you could potentially get fucked up over, you know Maybe they didn't have seat belts on planes Still They couldn't tie that wheelchair down Maybe the president just need a little willy-d Oh, girl The president's party about 80 people all slipped out of Washington as quietly and discreetly as possible aboard Roosevelt's presidential yacht and cruise down the Potomac River to rendezvous with the Iowa at the river's mouth in Chesapeake Bay So the Iowa is the big ship that he's gonna be on Okay, for a minute I thought he was going straight to the willy-d Well right now it sounds like an episode of 24 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Down the Potomac I love that they all get they all okay guys and they all creep out they all creep out of the white house Why are you wearing white? Everybody keep your black hoods on Let's get down on the dock and get on the yacht And now we're on the fancy yacht And now we're on the fancy yacht I mean it also shows you like how different it's gotten with the president I mean he seemed I mean that's a little it seems a little ghetto It feels a little old fashioned to have him fucking sneak, him on foot I know, no he's not on foot They roll him. He's in a wheelchair Oh right, roll him sorry, well yeah They're rolling him down the Clugity clugity clugity clugity clugity My blanket My blanket Ah fucking polio Clugity clugity clugy clugy It just seems crazy end of a movie. No, it's completely insane. A terrible movie. Yeah, a movie that's bad. Like one of the movies where they take over the White House. Like what are those crazy White House down? White House down. It wasn't called White House down, was it? There were nine of them, but that was one of them. It's always down. That's the thing about the White House. It's always down. Always. Because it's on the ground. Yes. You know what I'm saying? No, it's different. It's on the ground. Different. I'm writing a movie called White House Boom. Oh. It's really good. What happens? The White House blows up and everybody's the president. What? Yeah, it's not good. It sounds great. It's good. And then Adam Sandler's not the president. Adam Sandler's not the president. Also on board with the secretary of state and the joint chief of staff. Wow. So everybody's on the fucking boat. Now here's the thing. My family, when I was young, when, and some families do this, when they travel together, they would take separate planes. Oh wow. Just in case. Your family did that? Yeah. Wow. It's kind of crazy. But like my grandparents and everything, if everyone flew to a place, they would take separate planes. Wow. Okay. Because if one went down, there was someone to take care of the kids or whatever. Yeah. Wouldn't you fucking do that? Yeah. Wouldn't you put a guy in a fucking plane? Yeah. We don't go all in. Like put a guy in a rickshaw and another guy. What about, haven't you ever seen a movie? Leave a day or two apart maybe. Yeah, a little bit of time. Some people take the plane, some people take the boat. Right. Yeah. Let's all get on one boat. Yeah. Good God. All right guys, you got all the eggs? Just bring the one basket. Let's roll. Worst planning ever. Hey, what happened? But I feel like it's going to be fine. But if there's an alternate universe, this shit gets blown up. Yes. And the world, and the world is run by Hitler. Yeah. Yeah. Listen, would things be that different? Obama. He's the same. He's the same thing as Hitler. Yeah. Socialist. So the ship went down, the US would be completely fucked in the ship hole. Yeah. The 45, so they're on a 45,000 ton battleship. They're traveling up the bay from the berth in No Fork, Virginia to meet the Potomac. They had to get rid of all their fuel just to keep from running aground in the river. And then they meet the president and he hops on board. Okay. And they're good to go. Then they got to go refuel. None of it's, none of it's a good plan. None of it's a good plan. How did they get him on? Gangplank, I guess. Alrighty. Just rolled them right up. Little rickety, isn't it? Sorry, Mr. President. This is a great plan. Such a bad plan. Okay, now we're going to go refuel. Perfect. It's all coming together. We just meet you out farther. It's all coming together. The crew of the Iowa didn't know what their mission was until Roosevelt boarded. So no one knew. And then he came on board and they're like, holy fuck. Is that guy rolling up here? Oh, they didn't even know it was him. No, not until they saw him there. Because they originally... That's going to be really weird. Originally they were like, the crew was like, why are they putting a bathtub in on the fucking ship? Yeah. They were all like, what the fuck? Why is there a fucking bathtub? Shut up. Some of us are going to take baths. Wait, what? Come on. Oh, oh, there's a... Oh, the guy in the wheelchair. That's right. The Iowa slipped silently out to sea with strict orders to lie low and make no radio contacts. None of the ships can talk to each other. Okay, good. The battleship was joined by two escort aircraft carriers, which provide air cover and three destroyers to provide protection from the German submarines that were constantly attacking ships in the Atlantic. One of the destroyers was of course the Willie D. All right. It was the SS College. Alpha Omega Epsilon here, baby. Hey, hey, take those shots. That's an order. Yeah. Tuga, Tuga, Tuga. Okay. Right out of the shoot, things did not go well. Oh boy. Captain Wilford Walter of the Willie D. Yes. Wilford Walter of the Willie D. Backed the Willie D out of its berth next to another ship in Norfolk, Virginia. There was a horrific noise. I'm sure it was. Or noises. Oh boy. As Walter and the other officers looked off the bridge, they saw that their ship wasn't coming apart. The Willie D's anchor had snagged the ship beside it and was ripping off its railing, life rafts, a small boat, and various other pieces of equipment. What? How did it... So they didn't pull up their anchor. But their anchor was on another... Well, their anchor was like still down or like partially coming up, and they went close enough to another boat that... They hooked it? That they hooked it on and they just tore all the shit off. I mean, look, I don't know anything. I think I could run the ship better. Already. I know about the fucking anchor. It's a thing. I know that. Just pull it up and then go. Pull it up, then go. Yeah. Be like, no, get it all the way up. I don't know. You can do both of them. Let's roll. Let's roll. What about the anchor? Roll! Go! The Willie D's damage was limited to scratches on its anchor, like in Caddyshack. Remember in Caddyshack? Yeah. Hey, you hit my boat! Yeah. You scratched my anchor. Oh, you scratched my anchor. That's what it is. Yeah, sorry. Because they were rushing to meet the Iowa, Captain Walter only had time to make a quick apology before his destroyer continued on its way. Sorry about that. My bad. Get you guys around. I'm going on the special mission. Hit the gas. Hit the gas. All right. Sorry about that. Good luck. Special mission. Sorry about taking your safety boat. Seems like you could really use it right now. Jesus Christ. My bad. Later. See ya. The Willie D met up with the Iowa and other ships and they got underway. The ships traveled at high speed all the way across the Atlantic with the smaller destroyers struggling to keep up. So they're small boats. They have a hard time keeping up. Even at maximum speed, the trip would take eight days. So there you go. There's your answer. All right. Eight days. Eight days. So during the voyage, the ships and their crews continued with training and drills that they normally conducted when at sea. Okay. Okay. Sure. Yeah. Keep appearance. Learn a little bit on the side. Right? Sure. Keep learning. Yeah. It's a learning boat. Yes. Which is good. You always want to be learning while you're on the boat. Especially when you're protecting the president. Yeah. Who can't walk. It was important to keep the men busy and in the case of the Willie D to better prepare its relatively green crew for life at sea. About 48 hours into the mission, the ships were making their way through an area known to be infested with U-boats when a large explosion suddenly rocked the water. Firecracker from the Willie D. The Willie D was doing training exercises. Oh no. Dropping fake depth charges. But the crew forgot to disarm their anti-submarine weapons. Although they didn't drop the depth charge into the sea, as you'd expect from the story, it just kind of rolled off the deck. Wait. And exploded. They... I mean, how? What? So they're supposed to be dropping fake... They're supposed to be fake dropping... Like you fake drop them. Like you go, dropping one, but you don't actually drop anything. Dropping two, and you don't actually drop anything. Also, they're supposed to be like not armed when they're... Yeah. That makes sense. So it's armed and it's just laying on the deck and somehow it rolled... Someone must have hit it. Rolls? Like rolls off... Rolls? I mean, it's not a can of beer. No, it's like a keg. Yeah. Okay, better. It rolls off the deck and it blows up. And it explodes. Happens. This kind of shit happens. Yeah, all the time. You've heard about it a million times. So everyone flips out... How's Roosevelt feeling right now? Good? Feeling good? I'm sure he's feeling real good. Everyone flips out thinking the president is about to be killed. All the ships start evasive maneuvers. So they're all doing their fucking plan like... Amp radio. I'm sure planes are fucking taking off from... Yeah. Everyone's fucking going ape shit. And then they Willy D is like, oop. Hey, everybody, sorry. We anchored again. We pulled another anchor. They're like, you know what? That was our bad... Good news, bad news. Good news. President's going to be fine. Oh, bad news? We're really bad at this. Okay. We let a missile drop off our boat. Willy D was lucky the depth charge sank a ways before detonating because if it had detonated quickly, it would have blown the stern off the ship. That's a problem. Well, you need a stern. Yeah, that's a problem. Sterns in boats are necessary. Yeah. Can I get a ship without a stern? No. Okay. So everyone was like, Willy D, you fucking suck. That's it. Time out. Time out, Willy D. Time out, Willy D. Go to the corner. Think about what you've done. God apparently felt the same way because the Willy D was hit by a freak wave, stripping everything that wasn't tied down overboard and washing a man off the boat who was never seen again. So just this random wave is like, whoosh, fuck you. And that's it. One guy's like, see you later, Larry. I'm in the water. The wave also knocked out the boiler so the destroyer had no power and fell behind the other boats, which the other boats are probably like, good. Gasset, go. Fucking lunatics. Go. Admiral Ernest King, who was in charge, called the Willy D and told them to get their fucking shit together. Good. And they did not. Really? At this point, FDR asked to see a demonstration of how the crew would react if they were actually attacked by Germans instead of one of their own ships. Well, he just saw. Not well. What would they do? Well, we drop the anchor and rip a ship apart and drop a bomb. Show them. There you go, girl. There you go. Willy D. Hashtag Willy D. Roosevelt wanted to see how the ship would perform if it was attacked from the air. OK. All right. So it's just from his bathtub. Show me how it would if there were an airstrike, please. Like to see that. Come on, guys. You know how we're in radio silence? Let's shoot some shit. Yeah. The way drills work is that balloons are released into the air and then the crew shoots them with the aircraft guns. Wait. So it's like target practice. OK. So they release balloons and then they shoot them with their guns on the ship. OK. Like you would shoot at a plane that's floating like a balloon. It seems very strange. You want to see how we train? We train hard. Let the balloons go. Come on, give them some licorice. We'll show you what we do here. We shoot slingshots at these balloons. Yeah. These balloons don't stand a chance. So the Iowa. So they released the balloons and Iowa starts shooting the fucking balloons out of the sky. They're just lighting them up. You lighten them up. Now, some balloons they miss. And those balloons float over toward the Willy D. Captain Walker. What? What is what? What? How is the Willy D. What? Going to fuck this up or react to this poorly or something? No, no, no. I do know that this could be the success story. It is not a success story. They're never success stories. There's never been one success story. You tried to tell me Rainbow Man was going to be fine. He was OK. He was not. He's safe. He's not safe. Safe now. Well, he's safe. No one else is. Captain Walker wanted to make up for his mistakes and get a little career redemption. Oh, no, not the headspace he should be in. So he was like, hey, fuck. Hey, let's double down on this. Yeah, let's shoot the shit out of these balloons and show these guys what we're made of. But these balloons are on the ship. No, they floated. They're just coming towards them. They're coming towards them, which means they're coming from the direction which the other ships are. So the Willy D. decides that they're going to shoot in that direction, the direction of where the president is most likely. Well, I don't know about that. They're shooting up towards the sky, but still in the direction. OK. So they did it. They shot the enemy balloons out of the sky. Right. All right. And what's next? Because nothing went wrong there. Well, did it. Did something happen? Well, then Captain Walker was like, you know what? We got more. Let's show these fuckers what else we got. Let's show them what else we got. Let's show them what we're fucking made of. No. So he ordered a practice firing of torpedoes. What? What is he doing? What are you talking? He's letting everyone know that he's fucking got some fucking sass in his pants. The president's there. The president's got the sack. The president's the man. He's got the captain is like, I'm going to show you. Well, I got some shit on my pants. I got some goodness. It's like when a quarterback going into a game is like, I need to have a big game. He's going to have an awful game. Yeah. So he's like, got to show him. Drop some torpedoes. You don't know this is going to go wrong. Oh, I know that it's going to shut the balloons out of the sky. That was good. Yeah. But this is it's not going to have something bad is about to happen. So this means they don't actually shoot torpedoes. They pretend to fire them. Still. They go load to one fire. We've proven that their practice sometimes goes into reality. One fire fired fired to one. So they take the first they fire the first fake torpedo fire to the fake fire the second torpedo fire three and shut. See, see you asshole. Do you see the sounds of a torpedo shooting out of the destroyers hurt? What? I mean, honestly. All right. Are we? I mean, are you fucking serious? What the fuck? Are we good? I mean, I love that they're like, it's how hard is it to to not have a torpedo in your just like you're doing a fake thing? How hard is it to take all the bullets out of the gun? Let me tell you this. When I light incense and leave the house, the amount of attention that gets paid to how OK that situation is is crazy because I know it could, you know, in a crazy world, a fire could start. So you've got to be smart about how the fuck when you're doing torpedoes are. How does it even happen? How do you even get how do you even not check, not be aware enough? I'm now I'm wondering if you're Jamaican. You reveal too much. There is a point in that it wasn't about incense and me just staging everywhere. Oh, yeah. I mean, look, I know it's completely insane. Bananas. Because I even we're still in the midst of this point. You're I mean, this is we're not even done and I'm already like, what the fuck? OK, so they hear the hear the swoosh of the torpedo. They hear the swoosh of a torpedo. And here's the other thing is that. Oh, I hate the other thing. I don't like the other thing. When they decided to do the practice, the training of the torpedoes. You mean when they decided to fire a torpedo at the president? Well, they had to pick a target. No, I mean, shut the fuck up. Why even do why make it that one? Why make it that one? So really show it's an homage. So the target they picked was the Iowans. Why? Why? Why? Explain to me. Explain to me in what what headspace this is this? Is. Yeah, a practice run. No, they're a firing on the president. Somebody was like, should we? Yeah. Yeah. OK. Yeah. Who else should we shoot at? One of the other ships with the Willie D. We nailed the balloon run. Let's shoot a torpedo at Roosevelt. Same thing. OK, so anyway, you were saying they've just shot a torpedo at the president. We'll be right back. Keep going. I'm sure there's a little more. Lieutenant H. Seward Lewis, who witnessed the entire event, later described the next few minutes. A shit show. Just after he saw the torpedo hit the water on its way to the Iowa, he innocently asked the captain. Did you give permission to fire a torpedo in the captain Walker was like, what is it? So what's it say? Put the torpedoes in reverse. Back them up. Back up the torpedo. Here it comes. Here it comes. Right back at the tube. The next five minutes aboard the Willie D were pandemonium. Yeah, I think that's fair. Just guys running into each other. Hey, guys, let's focus up. We just shot a torpedo at the president. Quick aside. Jump overboard. Everyone raced around, shouting conflicting instructions and attempting attempting to warn the Iowa. Shoot more torpedoes. OK, so now they're on a secret mission. That they've got a secret mission. That they've created. So so they're supposed to have complete radio silence. Yes, the entire time. Yeah, that's the order. But this is a pretty big deal. It feels radioable. Right. Doesn't it seem like this is we can actually because the reason you have radio silence is so that a German sub doesn't know you're out there and it doesn't shoot a torpedo at you. I would say, yeah, right. Yes, it's it's for safety for the president. So now the torpedo has already been shot. We're probably in our worst case. OK, so you do you pick up the radio? Yes, you do. Are you talking telling me what about the orders? Radio silence. All right. So I'm sorry. So what you're telling me now is that they've shot a torpedo. Yes. At the president. Yes. They're panicking, right, but they decide they're not going to use the radios. Well, they're following the rules. The rules were also to not shoot torpedoes at the president. That was just nobody said that. Yeah, that's inferred. Nobody said it. Insinuated by the premise of taking the fucking man. No, they only said don't talk on the radio. What should we do? Well, I just I know what we can't do is radio in. So I don't know. I don't want to lose my job. I know that I know if we use the radio, we're going to get fired. I don't know what's going to happen if the torpedo hits it. I assume we'll also be fired. So meanwhile, in a bathtub, the geniuses on the willy, the geniuses on the willy, the decide not to break radio silence to tell the president they shot a torpedo at him. So they use signal lights. So they send a signal man up top with a very important job. It's a little light. He does the light. Yeah. Yeah. He opens up and closes it. But I guess he was a little bit freaked out. Yeah. And he's a little bit panicked. First of all, five months ago, he was pulling up zucchini on a farm and now he's trying to save the president's life with a light. Well, now he just has to find a way to signal other boats that they've shot a friendly missile towards Roosevelt. It's a hard message to communicate in the spur. So he told the Iowa with his signals that there was a live torpedo in the water. One, two. I mean, how do you, what is that message even? I don't know. Well, I'm sure there's messages for torpedo torpedo coming. You know what is better is to just pick up the fucking radio. Okay. Wait, this, this might turn out fine. I bet it is okay, but it could have been okay. So he says torpedo in the water. And then the next thing he says is, is that it's headed in the other direction. All right, I'm going to go. I'm going to go, dude. I can't. I'm just gonna roll. So then he quickly realized that he fucked up and he tried again, but this time, instead of torpedo, he said teddy bear. This time he signaled that the Willie D was going in full reverse speed. So everyone on the, I was like, uh, he said a torpedo is coming at them. Okay. Nope. Uh, I guess he wants us to know they're backing up. All right, guys. So just to be clear, the Willie D shot a missile going that way and is backing up. All right. Should we maybe ditch them? Yeah. One of the I was like, okay. Okay. Thanks. Good to know. Let them know that we, that's cool. Do they have LSD on that? I'm not, uh, just want to let you know, we're backing up. Why is he panicking some back up, back up, man. It's fine. Finally. Someone was like, Hey, maybe we should call them on the radio. Hey, it's been two minutes and a torpedo said it towards the president. So they broke silence and screamed lion, which was good for the Iowa lion. Come right quickly. So they're like, move your fucking ship. We shot a torpedo at you. Plus we're going in reverse. I'm surprised they were even able to say that. Right. I, Iowa lion turn right. Also, we're backing up really fast. We shot torpedoes in the other way. We're backing up fast. Lion, right? Roosevelt being the coolest human being alive, ask the secret service to roll them over to the edge of the ship so they could see the torpedo approaching. Wow. Okay. That is pretty cool. He's like, just don't get my cape cut in the wheels. Yeah. Mr. President, he said, roll me. Oh, see this shit. I want to see it. I'm going to fucking die. I'm going to die like a man. So the secret service pulled their guns and tried to shoot the torpedo as it neared. All right. So we're just having a competition of who knows the least. Well, that's kind of what they have to do. I mean, that's their job. Either that or jump in and get in front of it. I don't know. Maybe they get hit and they might be able to. Okay. I mean, if you shoot a torpedo, I assume it explodes. I would think it's very hard casing. Yeah. I'm sure that the shell of the torpedo is very hard. You probably have to shoot it. Yeah, you can't shoot it. I mean, it would be like in a movie when the guy's like, shoot the gas tank and he doesn't it, but it's just, it's not, I don't, I. No, it's hard to shoot. Yeah. But we're saying if you shot it, you're right, it probably wouldn't do anything. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It probably not even had a hard casing. It's pretty fun. Not even had a hard casing or not. Like you could just shoot it and it doesn't mean it's explode. You still have to hit the detonator or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of riff raff in there. That's a stupid idea, but they had to do something. They had to be, well, their secret service. Listen, they're already smarter than the Willie D. Oh, without a doubt. They should have been shooting at the Willie D. Yeah. Just unloading clips. The Iowa made a sharp turn and the torpedo just missed the ship. Fucking real. The torpedo detonated in the ship's wake about a hundred yards away. Then the Iowa aimed all her main guns at the Willie D. Good. Yeah. Good. I'm on the Iowa side. Yeah. Time to be, time to be stern dad. A little tough love. Because they figured the ship had been taken over and there was an assassination plot at hand. Of course. Or they were fucking idiots. Or either way. Our torpedo training drill went wrong while the president was here. What else could you assume? No, I know you, you can't be like they couldn't really. They accidentally shot a torpedo at the president. So Captain Walters final utterance to the Iowa was in response to a question about the origin of the torpedo. His answer was a weak. We did it. Oh, you know, like, you know, when you're in trouble and like, you know, you have to like face the music a little bit and like, it's just, yeah, it's just, you know, you feel overwhelmed. Yeah. Now imagine it in this situation when the reality is that you've just shot a torpedo at the president. Yeah. And you, and you're like, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. The reality is that you've just shot a torpedo at the president. Yeah. And you and I will say the phone's ringing, but the radio is clicking on. Yeah. And you know, you have to get it. Yeah. And you're in charge. Yeah. And you don't want to be, you shouldn't be. You don't want to pick that up. But at the end of the day, you're about to field the call of, hey, why'd you just shoot a torpedo at the president? I mean, we had, we had one. So we thought we didn't think it was there. In our defense, we shot two fake ones. We did. We did shoot two fake ones. Really good. They went, they fake, they were nothing and we nailed our target. We nailed the fake ones. Yep. But we did shoot a, we did shoot an actual torpedo. It's you guys, our friends. Uh, no, anyway, my bad. And we feel awful. You hear about the anchor thing. You remember when we did that? That was crazy. Hello? Hello? Hello? Hello? Walter then demanded his crew explain what had just happened. No one copped to it. Captain Walter tried to assure the, the Iowa, that the whole thing was just an accident. This stuff happens. You read about it all the time. So Admiral King was like, Hey, Willie D, can you get the fuck out of here or we're going to sink you? Okay. Yeah. So that was it for their big mission. The crew followed orders and sailed to Bermuda where they found themselves. Look for the triangle. Don't come back till you found the triangle, Willie D. They found themselves facing armed Marines who were there to arrest them. So they were taken off the ship at gunpoint. Jesus. All of them, every single guy on the crew. Now, now are we, do we now envy the guy who got swept away in that big way a little bit more? Yeah. Sound like he maybe got the, yeah, the long end. Yeah. He got the great, perfect storm ending. Yeah. Yeah. This is the first time an entire Navy crew and the only time an entire Navy crew has been arrested. All of them. All of them. I was sleeping. You too. Fuck face. The ship was surrounded by sea mines. So they put, so they took everyone off the ship. They arrested them and then they put sea mines around the ship. Now at this point, are they operating from a point of like, they could be dangerous killers or are they just like, we're so mad at these morons? What if it's a ghost ship? Oh God. No, they're just so mad at them that they're like, fuck everything about these guys. Good. The crews were held, the crews held for several days while a closed door inquiry took place. The outcome was, the outcome was delayed for several days until torpedo man Dawson admitted that he left the primer in the torpedo tube, which caused the torpedo to launch. I mean, after the torpedo launched, Dawson tossed the primer overboard to hide his mistake. Oh God. I love them. These are just not, I love him. These are just not people who are ready for this position. Everyone's running around scrambling, trying to save the president and he's grabbing the evidence and tossing it overboard. Burn it. Burn everything. So the entire episode was kept secret. Nobody knew about it. Really? We weren't proud of that? No. Lieutenant Commander Walter and several of his officers were sentenced to shore duty where they were given obscure shore assignments. So they were basically, go clean that fucking toilet. Yeah. And they probably accidentally launched torpedoes. Oh shit. We just flushed it. Torpedo man Lawton Dawson was sentenced to 14 years hard labor, but president Roosevelt intervened in his case and had him released as the incident had been an accident. Okay. So that's cool of him. It's pretty cool. He seems to be the most calm of anyone. Yeah. There's a reason I think he was the president for like five years. Yeah. Because when there was a torpedo coming at him, he was like, roll me up the poop deck. Let me get a gander. I want to look see my death thing. You shoot at it. I'll watch it. Oh God. Let's party. After 1943, the ship was commonly hailed by other ships with the greeting, don't shoot. We're Republicans. The Willie D became a black sheep. The Navy thought the ship might be better off in an assignment where it could do little harm. One week later, the ship was sent back to Norfolk where it was prepared to head to the Pacific. It was then off to the Panama Canal and then up to Alaska where it was now stationed in the Aleutian Islands. Make sure those islands don't go anywhere. That's your job. Always well for a year just cruising about in Alaskan waters where nothing happened. No, I'm sorry. You said the phrasing of what you just said is troubling. Why? Because you just said all was well for about a year. Which makes it sound like Willie D's net damages. Just before the Willie D was about to leave for reassignment, one of the sailors on board got drunk. At that point, he decided to shoot the big guns. I mean, he shot a shell having no idea where it would land. Christ. It's like a cartoon. It's so crazy. It's like if you wrote the screenplay, people would be like, okay, we can't do that. We need you to be a little more realistic. It landed in the base commander's front yard exploding in his flower garden. He just happened to be home while having a dinner party for fellow officers and their wives. Oh my God. It's so great. Oh my God. It's so great. Captain Walther isn't even on the ship anymore. No. It's just still the same asshole. Oh yeah. Oh God. Well, you know what it is. I bet you too, if you get assigned to the Willie D at that point, you are like, oh, I'm kind of like a fuck off. We're the Willie D. You know when assholes are like, we're assholes because we're assholes. We called you assholes. Yeah. It's like Animal House. Yeah. Yeah. So now they get on the Willie D's like, it's party time. I love a guy that shoots the fucking... Pops a shell. Okay. So now the war is in its climax. So the Navy decides to send the Willie D out for a campaign. Bad call. Now they have a more seasoned crew. It's been a year. They got more seasoned guys. The Willie D leaves the Aleutian Islands for the Western Pacific, performing escort duty to the Philippines and taking part in operations at the Gulf in the Philippines. That's when it just hangs out with another ship for money. This is where it goes great. The Willie D fought in a few battles and performed well, probably because they had a new captain and experienced crew, but they fought well. In late March, 1945, the Willie D was sent to Okinawa where it patrolled far out in the ocean to intercept Japanese aircraft before they got in close to bigger ships. The Willie D's reputation took another hit when it riddled another sister ship with gunfire. Okay. That happens in the Battle of Okinawa. That happens. Sometimes you see a ship and it could be a plane. Wait, right there. What? If you see a ship, you're like, that's a Japanese Zero. That happens. That happens all the time. That plane's in the water. Shoot it. It's a water plane. It's a giant plane. Shoot that giant water plane. The destroyer did manage to shoot down five enemy planes. Okay. Great. So Willie D took down five planes. Great. On one patrol, Willie D was fighting off kamikazes. Did you know how many kamikazes were successful? Percentage? Yes. Ten? Three percent. Really? Yeah. Jesus. Right. How could you do that so poorly? It seems like it's your vantage point. Well, first of all, they were all on meth. Right. Are you telling me you're unfocused? Well, but you might be a little over eager or whatever else. You're looking for cigarettes? Too busy like, where's that Marlboro? One thing, you're jerking off. You're jerking off. You're jerking off the video games you're playing too at that point. So on June. That's going to be so fucking weird though when you're just like, God, none of them are hitting. What the fuck is going on? It's hard to train for this, I guess, in our defense. This is a hard thing to train for. It's actually a hard thing to train for. On June 10th, 1945, the Willie D fell victim to an incredibly unique kamikaze attack. As one of the planes came in low and aimed straight for the Willie D, the Willie D's gunners fired furiously trying to down the plane before it struck them. This time their training paid off and the crew rejoiced when the plane was shot and fell down short of the ship. Right? So they're all like, yeah, we got that motherfucker. But the Japanese plane was moving so fast that it hit the water and went underwater and continued to move toward the ship. It kept moving until it was right under the Willie D and then it exploded. Whoa. That's crazy. The Willie D was lifted out of the water. All power was lost and the steam lines were broken, and then fires broke out. The crew tried to fight the fires and fix the ship for three hours. Then the order was given to abandon ship and 12 minutes later it sunk. Not one man on the Willie D died. No one knew of the Willie D's crazy adventures until 1958. Oh, right. Yeah. Jesus. So the Willie D was taken out by an enemy plane that had already crashed. The Willie D might be the only victim of underwater kamikaze piloting. That kamikaze pilot was probably like, this is a really weird ending. Did not see this happening. Who saw that coming? At some point too, kamikazes, they're like, I'll do a shot. Willie D. Holy shit, man. Obviously the meat there is the fact that a torpedo was shot at the fucking present. I mean, come on. It's so great. We're really incompetent. That's amazing. Because it's bad decisions that gave the possibility to that actually happen. And that's what we do. We like to make rash calls and then at the consequences we're like, why'd you fuck up? Wait until I'm preparing a dollop, which is the longest research one I've done on the Iraq war. What's there to talk about? Oh my God. What's there to talk about? You cannot believe it's so much worse than anyone ever understood. Well, I mean, not to jump ship. You see the aftermath. Not enough people know about what it's done to the generation, the chemicals that we've released and the mutations and the radiation. It's fucking unreal, but I'm sure you have. It's hard for a lot. Anyway, dates. I don't know. I have a bunch of stuff. I don't know when this one's going to be released. No, I don't know either. But I wish I did a lot of dates. Go to my daveanthonycomedy.com and my dates will be up there. Buy my album, Shame Chamber. Follow us on Twitter, the dollop Facebook page. We have that. You can subreddit it. We have on the Facebook. I've been looking at the reddit and the Facebook page a little bit more. Yeah, pretty crazy. Yeah. And go leave a review on iTunes. That helps us out tremendously. I don't know. This probably go after L.A. Podfest, but who knows? Well, then what a great time it was. Oh my God. How fun was that? You little drunk. A little too drunk. Thank you. Thanking me. Yeah, I was actually on howl doll. Oh, yeah. That's why I wasn't moving. Yeah, you were so slow. Yeah. Anything? You anything? No, I guess no, because I don't know. Yeah, I don't know when. Okay. I'll be somewhere. Atta boy. You know what I mean? Yeah. All right. Okay. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.