 You God you want to look at it. I'll do one thought people say this is fun. Not Gary Gara. Okay someone or something is tickling Is it for fun and this is not gonna come to tickling podcast? Yeah, you are Queen fakie of made-up town all hail Queen shit of Liesville a bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what I can't be no this we done my friend did it Did it did it did it did it did it did it did it did it did it? It's the old news sound Yes, I mean, I know what you were going for but it's news with Dave and Gary Did it did it did it know that exchange. What do you mean? I think shit at when would something why would something have changed? Yeah, you thought because of the Kickstarter's people things would change not even because of that. No just figured Yes, this was the moment. Well, I just did it didn't feel like we were gonna do more noises and I'd be Gary right up Top I don't know. I don't know why I don't know what my I don't know what I expected but it's interesting It is interesting, isn't it? Yeah, yeah Huh? Well So we want to thank everyone for the Kickstarter first I want to thank everyone for the Kickstarter that was I mean, it's not even over Like for the 24 days or something, but you guys did it in like 30 hours Pretty much not expecting that was expecting It would go to the last minute. I'd be like a telethon. We're like we gotta save these. Yes. I started it at midnight So because I think that's a good time in Australia and the US anyway started at midnight. I think that's like No, maybe it's too late over there. I think it's at night in the middle of the day ish Sure 16 hour difference, whatever. So So it's there's 16 hours ahead, right? So anyway, so I thought that would be a good time for both I could do like a countdown. Hey in America, it's midnight and I would be pushing people and then all of a sudden 30 hours It's over. Yeah. Oh Thank you. I didn't know it's amazing. Really. Thank you. Yes So we have enough money to take Gary and um Gary See What they don't know is just that I gave a little grin of like god damn it. So you were like I'll do it more I gave a little smile like son of a bitch. You're like, oh two more Gary's for that smile. That's your tax Your tax two Gary's for saying it's okay with your face And then there's still a couple more prices on that I really want someone to take the tandem bike ride with you. Did that happen? Have you looked? I don't know But I'm ready. There's a tandem bike ride up You can take a Gary and then Gary will do your dishes and stand up for 10 minutes in your house Yeah, but I'm also I want to ride front on the tandem. Oh, yeah. No negotiation. Oh, no, you're in control I mean, come on I'm a girl. Yeah, no, I'm riding front of no you oh no Gary's in control. Thank you and you can call him Gary. Well, um definitely Pod thank you Pod fest not the people need permission to call me Gary. No, they don't do whatever they want. Well, they've done whatever they want So I want to get into this John Africa we starting yep, John Africa. Yeah, I do not know about John Africa No given it's having the name he's born into John. He was not born with that. Yeah, I mean that's That's the name you pick. I'm Danny, Louisiana Louisiana So Vincent Lopez Leaphart was born on July 6 1931 At the now demolished Philadelphia, Philadelphia General Hospital. Okay, starting out in Philly sure He was raised in the tough tight and greedy neighborhood behind the Philadelphia Zoo It's a weird. Yeah, it is a weird. It is weird. Yeah, you wake up. You're like the zebras are fucking That's just that leads to grit and toughness He was a quiet type boy a family of federal calls he liked dogs the animals and mostly stayed by himself All right. So he's an he's an animal loner. Sure. I'm Michael Jackson of sorts. Yes The lip hearts were God fearing Baptist. His father worked as handyman. He and his wife had Lini May Leopard. That's her name. Lini May. That's it. That's a not a good name that hasn't caught on I'll say that At ten children six boys and four girls, she stayed at home and cared for them Yeah until she died in her early 40s and then you can't care for the children anymore cuz you're dead. Yeah So the father felt the pieces instead of being like, all right, we're gonna make this shit run We're gonna make it happen. He went We're gonna be a sitcom he just one dad ten kids Who's blackish just the 30 of us? It's called overwhelming debt It's called happy you're gonna make it Have you gonna be by the other half? Okay, so He felt the pieces. He just became like sickly and didn't You know couldn't really function anymore. Sure Vincent was short very thin boy So underweight that the school doctor twice made notes about it by the age of nine. He had been classified as orthogenetically backward Wow I don't even know what it is and horrible disease name for him. Eddie Kibble. I don't know how to say this edge edge edge Edie Kibble, I don't know how to say this edge edge edge. Edie Kibble mentally retarded. He was that's the definition That's he was that's the retarded educate educate. Okay. It's a different thing It's it's you have such a low IQ, but you're not you don't have downs. So you're in the middle So it's like an education. It's an education definition. Okay So it means that in his whole life if he learned as hard as he could If he got everything all the information that he could take in he would learn to a fifth or sixth grade level Jesus But I thought he'd be like able to write but he'd be able to like take care of himself and live on his own and speak It's okay But he can't like he's not gonna be he's not gonna be a good reader and you know He'd be like 40 and he'd be like right when's recess? He's still in sixth grade He's always in sixth grade practice division. Uh No, it's our job we work at a all right. I'm gonna go play tetherball See you guys at lunch Okay What he was first tested his IQ was measured at 84. Okay, it's not high but it's not terrible No, it's like George Bush Alright so this guy can run the country I'm gonna go play tetherball. I'm gonna go play tetherball Test it again eight years later at age 15 His score fell to 79. So he was going down five Every eight years so at the end of his life, he's gonna be like a potato. Yeah It's like what more suffered from He had more disease yeah He had she tech finally had a What was he the best at time, but now he's turned Alright so uh So I mentioned even change the third grade level when at age 16, he dropped out So he was 16 and he could read like a third grader But not only just read but just in general his dispositions sort of I don't think his disposition So, yeah, so he drops out. So that's a good, that's good. So like, I don't see what else is great. Like a third grader. Things are good. Put on the cape. Get out there. Yeah, make it happen to the city. My friend at 17, he was arrested for an armed holdup and stealing a car drafted by the army. He served for more than a year with the infantry during Korea. When he returned from Korea, he met and married Dorothy Clark on March 11th, 1961. So he was dumb. Yes, but he's getting some. Yeah. And he got married. Yeah, girls like the dumb guys. Yeah, some of them do. He's so sweet, you know, she'd be like, so what do you want to do? He'd be like, want to go chase those rabbits? I love how complicated he is. He's a dreamer. Vincent was a cheerful man who loved classic. Did you see the guy on Twitter that said that you were funny and I'm not? That made me laugh so hard. Oh, wait, the one you had, you had the blocked conversation. Yeah, I just kind of block you. Yeah. He's like, why don't you block me? You're like, done. You were just one word in your way through it. That's so funny. Vincent was a cheerful man who loved classical music in those days. He dressed well and was a vigorous talker and debater. Wait. Right. That's the thing that you have to understand is that he's not, he doesn't come across as an idiot when you meet him. But a debater is somebody who is very good at like weighing facts and argue. So this is someone that I would, I would feel like that would fall under this umbrella of his retardation. If you met him, you wouldn't know until he said, I can't read or I can't. Can you, what I have five coins. If I take away one, what is that? Like then he's confused. Didn't you just win a debate? How many coins are left? If you take two of my five, please tell me. Please. You just won the debate. How many coins? I knew it. So then he moved, he was married and he moved to New York City. Oh wait, his wife, this is right. He had firm ideas about everything. His wife described him as a very deep thinker. Everyone who met him thought he was very philosophical and a deep thinker. Vincent moved to New York City where he studied and practiced interior decorating. So it put a strain on his marriage, which being gay for a couple of years will do. If you go honey, I'm going to go be gay in New York for a couple of years. Honey, which one of these blue pastels do you like better for the living room? I'm leaving you. What? So that put us down the minute and his wife was like, you got to come back because you can't be a gay interior designer in New York. And he was like, all right. So he came back. When he came back, he discovered Dorothy was following the teachings of a group known the kingdom of Yehwah. Here we go. Y-A-H-W-E-H. Oh wait, isn't that Yahweh? Yahweh? Is that a thing? Is that a thing you've heard of? Yeah. Is it a big thing? It's something from the Bible. Yahweh, I can't... I never read that. I know. I never read that. I was supposed to read the Bible. It was in Catholic school, but I didn't. But I know that... I believe it's a symbol of Yahweh. Maybe I'm crazy. But this is where it starts. This is where... Oh, my man. It so doesn't start here. It extolled the glories. We're so not dolloping yet. It extolled the glories of reincarnation and the power of pyramids. That's not in the Bible. There's no part where Jesus is like, pyramids, motherfuckers! Look at that! Look at the eye at the top of that one. Followers swore off meat and adopted a natural diet. Vincent, however, kept on eating meat. In 1967, the couple separated. They last saw each other in May 1968. Vincent moved to Powelton in Philadelphia in 1970. It was a cooperative neighborhood near the campuses of the University of Pennsylvania and Jexil. So, it's a co-op. It's a neighborhood co-op. So, it's fucking liberal hippie. It's that scene. It's that time in the world. The summer love is happening in San Francisco. It's all that stuff. Hey, Jeff, you want to make some shoes? All right, man. Cool. I'll bring my blanket. We can sit on it. In 1971, the manifesto of the community, Housing Incorporated, bore 14 names, including Vincent Lephart. Powelton, in the late 60s and early 70s, was a place where a lot of people were involved in liberal politics and social justice. Civil rights, the women's movement, the Vietnam War. They were peaceful. They worked to change things from within the system. It was a variety of people, artists, musicians, college students, professors, I'm sure. People didn't lock their doors. It's that kind of place, man. Come on in, Jimmy. They were friendly and open. They had collective principles like, love, my brother. All right. Come on in, Jimmy. And come on in, Jimmy. All decision making is non-hierarchical, non-authoritarian, and open to the entire membership, reads the document. The collective does not claim to be a substitute for revolution in our oppressive society. Oh, boy. Yep. They got together and they made a bunch of words that no one would care about. Yeah, their manifesto should be like, easily taken advantage of. We're going to invite weirdos in. Super easy to trust and get that trust broken. It was the exact type of neighborhood that had a tolerance for extremists. That's a problem. Like Ira Einhorn, a bushy bearded guru of counterculture, who would meander around naked, claimed he organized the first Earth Day in 1970 and then murdered his girlfriend and ran away to France. Sorry? But that's the brief story of Ira Einhorn. And he was allowed to hang. He was one of the people walking around naked and then he's a counter, oh yeah, tell us more, man. And he's like, I started Earth Day. And then all of a sudden, he killed his girlfriend upstairs in the apartment and ran away to France. Cool, man. Where they didn't have, I don't think they could extradite him until, I want to say, 2000 and something. Jesus. Yeah, it was something crazy. By this time, Vincent was no longer a nice dresser. Okay. He had dreadlocks. All right. He was roaming the streets, trailed by a pack of dogs. Um, okay. A pack is strong. He was an unread man who walked around spouting philosophy. Jesus. With dogs. Yeah. He would go to any events and would walk dogs or sell horse meat as dog food. I read that and I'm like, where did he get the horse meat? What's happening? What? Is there like, you got into the docks and there's a guy with a horse and a can and you take a bunch out. Hey man, I want to buy some horse for my dogs. Hey, I need nine pounds of horse. And then what does he do? And then he walks around the co-op like with a bag of horse and he's like, hey man, you want to feed your dog? Hey, here, let me, could you mind if I feed your dog some horse? How does any of it work? Hey, cool man. Hey, you know what? I realize that I only have a third grade education, but I think I'm going to go into selling horse meat on the streets. Hey man, if you take away two of my dogs out of my five, how many are left? Seven. Cool man, have some horse meat. So Jesus Christ. So that's him. He's, so that's him. Everyone likes him. He's got a wild pack of dogs that he feeds horse meat to. Yeah. Yeah. Everyone likes to talk to him. He's rented row house on Pearl street when the housing co-op stepped in and bought it for him so he could remain. Wow. So that's how much they liked him. They liked him a lot. Fucking love Vinny Vin. Yep. Um, about a year after you moved in, neighbors looked out one day and saw a young white man standing on Vincent's porch with an armload of papers. I thought he was some kind of school teacher, a neighbor says, but he wasn't. Vincent had found his first disciple. Oh, okay. So now I can say, here we go. This is the new Yahweh. A man named Donald glassy. Donald glassy had a new degree in social work. He was trying to find himself and in doing so he met Vincent. Vincent had all the answers glassy was looking for after listening to Vincent philosophizing. Glassy told him he should write this down. Vincent said, I don't know how to write, which at that point would give you a weird like, pause. Yeah. Unless he was like ratings for the losers. That's what I would have done completely. Yeah. Oh, you write, you know, those rights, the white man, you write it down. I wrote it down in my memories. So when Vincent, but seriously, can you please write that down? Glassy offered to write them down for him. Nice. Vincent dictated and glassy typed what became known as the book or the guidelines 300 pages that laid out Vincent's anti-technology back to nature views. Okay. The two men moved into glassy's apartment to work on the guidelines. They carried out their work in an apartment house that was owned by the housing co-op after years labor. The guidelines were complete. This was the founding of the Christian movement for life, which would soon just become known as move. Do you know what it is yet? Nope. Much of it was some of the strangest, much of it was some of the strangest pros I had ever read. Said a former co-op member. The metaphor I remember was cloaked in vomit. It was filled with metaphors like that. The book was filled with an accusatory tone, attacking science and technology. I love that electricity is cloaked in vomit, man. Cloaked in vomit. Yeah. So, so that's the level of like, then you get, then you get like the level of maybe stupidity. Yeah. It's actually involved here. Like you're like, how is he philosophizing? Well, not well. Like Nietzsche wasn't like people that puking on that shit, man. He's covered in doo doo. That's totally what it was. Then glassy and Vincent began living the lifestyle. So ready? Okay. They refused to use road spray in their apartment. Very spray fearing would harm the dogs. Soon the entire building came invested, infested with roaches. Wait, they brought the roaches or they just, we'll get to that. Oh boy. When three co-op members were sent to confront them, Vincent was very hostile. This was the first time anyone had seen this side of Vincent. And he said, if you're not with me, you're against me. What other idiot said that years later? George Bush. So the co-op began evicting proceedings in the winter of 1973. Do you know how much, do you know how much of a fuckhead you have to be to get a co-op to evict you? So they evicted Vincent. They're trying. Yeah. They're trying to. So Vincent, then a pack of dogs and roaches. I assume rats and like every kind of vermin. If there's roaches, there's fucking everything in there. So Vincent and Glassy moved out. They're like, fuck this shit. We'll take move somewhere else. Anywhere will house five dogs, two crazy people and a handful of roaches. Vincent moved across the street to a massive Victorian house. In a classic hippie fashion, the guy who owned the building thought Vincent was a bit of a quote strong character and the addy bit of quote brutality about him. But those are bad things for a tenant. But I felt compassion. I didn't know anybody who didn't have a place to live. Classic. This is how it all fucking starts. Yeah. Like, no, everybody's cool, man. Everybody's cool. Trust him. So what? There's fucking roaches. He'll go over here and it'll be fine. Like this is the guy that fucked everything up. Yeah. Yeah. The guy with the big heart. Yeah, man. I don't, I've never seen a homeless guy before. We got to put him in this big house over here. Can you believe this shit? Dude doesn't have a place to live. You believe that? You learned that lesson one time. Like, well, fuck him. I'm not giving him change then. The tenants in the building quickly became concerned about all the dogs and the now parade of move supporters going through the building. So they decided to sell the house. It was bought by Donald glassy. Oh, how the fuck did he buy it? Well, I don't think houses were that much back then. Like 500 bucks, you get a house. Seriously. Vincent was like 500. What? Head hurt. There are still people from the neighborhood to this day who think glassy founded move. Many people think then and still think today that glassy worked for the FBI and was brought in to destroy the co-op. Jesus. Yeah. What? Well, the FBI was all about destroying co-ops. Fucking bored. But there was a lot of fucking counterculture people in this area. But still, their counterculture was to that of like. But think about, there were also like, there were Black Panther types then. So this neighborhood had that whole flavor to it. There's going to be. Sounds like the Warriors. There's going to be probably like strong anti-war voices and leaders of that type. So there's all kinds of people. So it is something that actually the FBI would fuck with. And my friend who grew up there said phones were tapped in the neighborhood. And so it was a legitimate. Like the FBI being after you was actually a legitimate thing. Yeah. So at the beginning, move seemed like a peace loving group. They picketed the zoo. Oh, demanding. Demanding that the animals be set free. Okay. Which they can live with us, man. Yeah, we're thinking of what are you going to? What do you what's your end goal with your lions like dogs? Hey, man. Okay. You know what? You know, like, what do you? What? We're really aggressive. Turns out. Hey, can you get this one not to eat my arm like this? Hey, this one keeps charging. He's like a dickhead hippo. Keep him free. The niceys isn't so fucked up that hippos are these terrifying animals. You should be able to hug them. They're so big and they look so ridiculous. Cartoon. Cartoon. Ruin you ruin you for fucking hippos. Yeah. Hippos. You have no idea that it's like, let me put the napkin around my neck before I eat. Yeah, but it's actually like a big round dragon. Murder you without question. Runs faster than you ever will. So they want to set on the animals free. They protested outside of a pet store saying they didn't see the difference between pet stores and Auschwitz. What? No, I just totally agree. I couldn't agree with them more. I mean, name one difference. Okay. Auschwitz was a place where they killed humans. Name two differences. Okay, well. Bingo. Lost me. Can't name two. We don't see any difference between putting Jews in Auschwitz, napalming Vietnam or enslaving black people and enslaving puppies. And as a Jew walks by, he's like, Jesus. You gotta be fucking kidding me. They're not enslaved. They're pets that you feed and they love you. Same thing with Jews, man. Okay, fuck you. They're letting these Jews run in those big wheels in there too in their little cages. That's not what's happening. Yeah. And they love mulch. So they clearly were a group of idiots. Yes. It sounds like they were led by a third grader. There's no difference between these animals and the Jews. But Move was, oh wait, they got their biggest headlines when they handcuffed talk show host Mike Douglas in his studio to retaliate for an episode in which an errant chimpanzee had been handcuffed and shot with a tranquilizer dart after running amok during a taping. So they went into the studio during taping and handcuffed him because they'd seen on TV that a monkey got loose and they had someone had to tranq him. Chimps are fucked up. So they had to tranq him. This is why you don't want them out of the zoo. They run around in studios and do horrible things. That's the only other option. Fine. We'll just put them on talk shows. You asked for it. There's no in between guys. Not another choice. What do you want from us? Do you want them in zoos or do you want them on the Mike Douglas show? Make up your fucking minds. But Move had always been violent. The people in the co-op learned this firsthand. After Vincent and the co-op had their falling out, he quit the co-op. Then the leaders of the co-op had their houses picketed and their lives repeatedly threatened. So he's just like, it's like if you come over here and I'm like, all right, the people next door have these two kids and the kids think it's fun to throw their balls in our yard. So I'm constantly throwing the balls back and the kids are laughing. So Gareth, you want to picket today? Yeah, let's go over there and make their lives hell. Just picketing your neighbors. That's also a third grade. You know what we're going to do? We're going to protest the neighbors. Shout at them. We'll shout our way out of this one. You motherfucker, Julie. I know you hear me, Julie, you fucking bitch. Down with Julie. Boo, down with Julie. Down with Julie. So as they walked down the street, they were in, neighbors were encircled. They were cursed. They were shoved. And perhaps the most violent incident, a Move member kicked a co-op member in the face, kicking his nose because he had refused to nod hello in the two passed in the hallway. Wow. So it's picking up. Nod, nod hello from now on. Yeah. Oh yeah. You learned your lesson. You nod. Give me a nod. You imagine the next time they walk by each other is like, how you doing man? You good? You cool? Yeah. See you later, man. Okay. Yeah, you nod. That's right. You think about the puppies. Okay, nodding. See you later, man. All right. You let a puppy go today, motherfucker. Vincent was now rarely seen on the street. Okay. He didn't have much and he had a new name. I'm pretty excited, obviously. John Africa. There it is. He chose Africa because he wanted to pay homage to Africa as the continent where all life began. I'm sure that they appreciated the hell out of this. Yeah, they did. Sure word got through. I bet he probably got a plaque from Africa. Probably one he couldn't read. Thank you. Good luck figuring out what this says. It just says please fuck off. He's like, look at that. Huge award. Africa was a haven for drug users, ex-convicts and lost souls. Cool. John Africa played the father figure advising, cajoling, ordering. To win his approval, members had to change their diets, wear out junk food and meat and become physically fit. Okay. I think that's okay. Yeah. It's not the worst thing. Listen, this is what Michelle Obama's doing. This is like joining CrossFit. Yeah. Exactly. Joining a gym. Yeah. It's like a New Year's cult. It's like everyone's making their New Year's resolutions. Yeah. No more meat. No. Keep the dogs. Keep the dogs. Periodically, they were sent on an activity ordered by John Africa. They would go to demonstrate at the local police station to disrupt talks by Jane Fonda or meetings of the Board of Education. All the while, their leader stayed hidden. Which, this I don't get. Now, Jane Fonda was against the war. Yeah. So they were going out and protesting Jane Fonda. They didn't like how she was doing it? Hey, you're too pretty, lady. Hey, fuck you, Fonda. You're protesting wrong. While his 40 or so followers clashed almost daily with the authorities, tallying into hundreds of arrests, never once was John Africa picked up. John Africa always made sure he wouldn't be identified, but he was always there in the background, sitting down the street while the commotion went on. Yes, it's a little... Yeah. Yeah, it's a little Hitler. All right, you guys go over there and really let them know. Fuck shit up. I'm going to be the judge. I'm going to be down here burning some incense. Get a coffee, grab some incense. Get a scone. You guys heard of scones? Yeah, you guys like scones? I'll get a bunch for when you're done. Go handcuff yourself to Mike Douglas. I'll be here. Now, this part's a little weird because I couldn't find a lot of information about it. In 1976, when Move members were released from another arrest, they were coming home, they were at the house, something started with the police again. A kerfuffle. A kerfuffle. They had a clash with police and a baby ended up dying. Whoa, okay. So there was a baby and I think what it was, from what I could try to gather, because there's so many different pieces of information about this, and there's a documentary that they just kind of briefly... And then a baby died. And then they moved on. Coming up. And then they just moved on. But I think what it sounds like is that a baby had already died and then after the clash with the police, they were like, you killed the baby. It sounds like upstairs in the house. So it's fucked up. So they're living train spotting. But then they can also point the finger now. Yeah. You killed this baby today, even though it looks like it's been dead for three weeks. Yeah, but a while. A while. Yeah. Move had a family structure. Everyone was given a new... It's a feel-good story regardless. It is a feel-good story. It's a feel-good story. This doesn't end well, this story. Are you sure? Yeah. I feel like it's gonna end fine. It's not gonna end great. I feel like it's gonna end fine. You know what? They had a family of four, they had two kids, and they exploded into flowers. And there they sat. Move had a family structure. Everyone was given a new age. Fun. One. Whoa. Okay. Everyone is one. Okay. You're one year old now. You're in. Hello, goo goo goo goo goo goo. Shake your keys at me. I think that so... It seems like it's a way to stop a hierarchy and just say, well, you're one. There's no parents or anything. Now it's like you're living... Now you're actually born into the system you were supposed to be born into. So now you start to count your years. I would say that. Now they're not gonna start counting their years. I don't... Should I stop guessing? It's just... And the same surname, Africa. So everyone had picked the name Africa. Popular name. I'm gonna go to Jerry Africa. Hi, I'm Jerry Africa. This is Larry Africa. This is Africa Africa. Crazy dude. This guy's wild. We're all one. Double F. Yeah, we're one years old. The children born to move are forbidden from synthetic formal education, as it was called. They were not taught to read or write. You know what? You're gonna be like me. Stupid. Yeah. What? Was it good enough for me? Then it's good enough for you. You don't need to read. John Africa... Step over this dead baby. John Africa... I know my shit. And cockroaches. Cockroaches. John Africa knew how to bring people in and make them the system, the enemy, right? So... Right. The education is, you know, oh, whose education are you getting? That kind of shit. As the years passed, move gained members and grew bolder. The headquarters expanded into the Twin House next door, which moved simply took over after its tenants moved out. Cool. That's fine. Hey, that place is empty? Ours. I wonder why the people moved out. We work under the concept of dibs. And we're gonna call dibs. So that's just how move rolls. By the way, we're one. I don't think that's a legal thing. No, no, legal dibs. We have dibs. So try to take it away. I'm pretty sure that's not a... Dibs. Okay. Binding. They say they have dibs. I can hear you still. Okay. Soon neighbors were plagued by rats and foul odors. How are those two symbiotic? I have no idea. And the headquarters grew into a compound surrounded by large wooden posts. It looked like a military stockade. Move made compost piles of garbage and human waste in their yards, which attracted the rats and cockroaches. At what point? What? Okay. So they decided to... So they have like a... It sounds like a duplex, like a Victorian house duplex. It sounds like a lovely place at one point. It's a nice place. And then they... It's like a fart club. So then they get a bunch of wood posts from where, I don't know, they probably went over near the zoo and cut down trees. Yeah, and stole them from someone. And they put... So it looks like the beginning of a Braveheart around the fucking English fort. Cool. Yeah. And then they just start shitting in the yard. Cool. And throwing all their garbage there. Hey. So at what point as a neighbor are you like... Oh, I think a long time ago. But now people are just leaving and not trying to get them evicted. Question. Yes. Why are you shitting in the yard? That's why we're shitting. There'll be no more questions. So... For the rats to eat, dummy. They consider it morally wrong to kill pests. Okay. So they don't kill pests. Right. Sure. That's that Ye-Wah thing or whatever. Yahweh. Yahweh. Yeah, Yahweh or the highway. Yahweh or the highway, baby. Because of the time and the place, many people refuse to see move as anything but victims of police brutality and racism. Well, people have come as fuck. But that makes sense, right? Yeah, of course. In this crazy liberal area. Well, that is the problem with liberalism in a way, right? Is that a lot of times you are too nurturing and too understanding. Sure. And the evil takes advantage. But at the time, there is a lot of racism. Totally. And the cops are racist. Well, if you saw this at that point... I mean, even now if you saw this, you'd sort of be intrigued, like, all right, what's the plan a little bit? Because I don't like what the government is doing. What are you offering? Oh, rat and shits. Well, I'm against that too. But it's maybe not as bad. Those people living close to the headquarters were constantly being threatened and harassed. Co-op members who tried to convince paladin neighbors that move was a genuine threat were called racist. So anybody who lives on that block is like, hey man, there's rats and there's shit in the yard and they're saying they're going to kill us. Racist. People around the block are like, oh really, you don't like black people? No, I didn't say that. They're shitting in their yard. Really? Really? They all look the same. Funny how that works. I want to open your mind a little bit, bro. Yeah, no, he says they're shitting in the yard. He said what? He's racist, motherfucker. Fucking racist. God damn. In this day and age. Oh, are they wearing bones in their noses too? Yeah. Oh, let me guess. Yeah, they're carrying baskets on their heads. You racist. Yeah. It's members of the co-op now broken to bitter. The members of the co-op broken to bitter factional disputes quarreling about whether move sympathizers should be permitted into other co-op houses and suing each other in common please court over a proposed sale of the co-op's property. So it's just breaking up. So things are good. Things are fucking totally coming apart. Four co-op members lodged a formal appeal with the Philadelphia police for help. They asked for the placement of metal shields over the front porch of the co-op apartment building across the street for move members. A steel wall between them moved. So they were like, I have an idea to fix this. Have you seen Israel, Palestine? No, that hadn't happened yet. So be like Dublin. Okay. Yeah. So have you seen the wall that separates the, that's what we should do. On one side, green and leprechauns on the other. It's a lot like the sitcom where you're like, we'll just put a line of tape down the middle. That's your half. That's my half. Except a little higher stakes. Move did not respond well to police involvement. Shocking. I'm surprised they hear that. They sent a written statement to the police on May 20th, 1977. Hopefully we didn't let John Africa write it. It's going to be in Cray. Don't attempt to enter move headquarters or harm move people. And yes, you want an international incident. Cause our last name's Africa. That's international. We are prepared to hit reservoirs, empty hotels and apartment houses, clothes factories and type traffic in major cities of Europe. What? I mean, it's a little bit off. It's a lot off. The targets off. It's off. They're like, uh-huh. Okay. Do that. It's like if my neighbor came over and was like, Hey man, I don't like what you're doing. Like I'm going to fuck up conquered. That's a new Hampshire, right? You know, that's right. Bitch. That's it. If you don't stop fucking with me, I'm going to call my friend in England and have it punches neighbor teach you. We are equipped. We are equipped, well-trained and expert in guerrilla tactics. We are not a bunch of frustrated middle-class college students, irrational radicals or confused terrorists. We are deeply religious organization, totally committed to the principle and belief as taught to us by our founder, John Africa. We are not looking for trouble. We're just looking to be left alone. We are one. I wouldn't have started with the threats if I was looking to be left alone because they're the police and that's actually illegal to threaten the police and just make terrorist threats about the world. And I would not say what we're not because that's what you are. Right. The whole thing is I'm looking for trouble, I'm looking for trouble, I'm looking for trouble and then I'm not looking for trouble. It's like we are not a bunch of disbanded college students who have no clue what we are. Oh yeah, you are. You are a little bit. You're one years old. The statement was signed with the chemical equations for nitroglycerin and TNT. Oh my God. Hey man, I like the words but how do we sign this? What's our John Hancock on this bitch? I mean they're making the police go to like another department real quick. Like what is that? I thought so. All right, fucking let's get the tank. It was just the kind of thing to capture the attention of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Shocking. A siren was going off in their headquarters. Move members dressed in military style fatigues and carrying handguns and rifles stood atop their barricaded paladin compound. The same day, a shotgun that police took from a Move member who had left the compound was traced to Glassy. Glassy was then arrested and facing a five-year prison term for falsifying federal firearms forms. He became a snitch. Oh Jesus. Right? Yeah. What a dick. That's why people think he was part of the FBI. Oh because he just let it loose. All of a sudden he's rolling and he's working with them. It's all very like start the thing, get the ball rolling, get these people all fucked up shitting in their yard. I mean first of all, tremendous police work if that's true. A top notch. But then all of a sudden he's working with the FBI. Okay so. Glassy had already become disillusioned with Move and John Africa when he joined John Africa preach nonviolence and now he is becoming a weapons freak, requesting all Move members to obtain bazookas and mortars. See now doesn't that make you think he's not FBI? That he just rolled because he's like part of the infrastructure. I think so. I think so but also if I'm following a dude and I'm like yeah man I like animals and then he's like go get a bazooka. I'm like how the fuck am I going to get a bazooka? I'm not going to go and get a, what am I, Safeway? Like where's the fucking bazooka? I go down to the grocery store and I'm like hey where's the bazooka? I'm like what the fuck? How are you getting a fucking, we're a mortar. He's just ordering them to get it. He told ATF that Move members would kill if John Africa ordered them to. Glassy said Move had stockpiled bombs. Over the past year he and other Move members had flown to cities across the nation and to London where they left bombing timing devices without explosives in hotel rooms. These were accompanied by threatening letters warning that Move would strike for real if Philadelphia did not stop its harassment. Okay, alright, now, now, now. Know what? It makes complete sense. It makes complete sense. Go ahead. Can we recap? Go ahead. What they're doing is putting a cap on the problem. They're taking care of the situation. So what they're doing is. Yeah, go ahead. They're basically making fake bombs around. In like Seattle. The country and the world. With letters. That are basically like, hey, imagine if this was real. Yeah. And then we live in another place. Yeah. That has nothing to do with this. Yeah. Hey, Toronto, what you thinking? Yeah. Feel threatened? By the way, we're in jail now and incapable of ever following through on this. But admit for a second you were a little bugged out. A little bit, right? A little bit for a second. You were a little bit bugged out. Check out Freaky. Did it not? Did it not get bugged? Imagine. We left the magic bombs all over the world. It's almost like this is a plan that was made by a guy with a third grade education. Yeah. We'll make fake bombs. Leave them. Yay. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. Yeah, yep. So, yeah, yeah. So, yeah. But that fall from that day included 20 bombs, a pile of bomb parts, two shotguns, eight high powered rifles and a handgun. Jesus. Also recovered were books. The Anarchist's Cookbook. Two. The Silencers' Snipers and Assassins' Handbook, an OSS manual on sabotage and an army field manual on explosives. So they seem like they're in a good spot. They're reading. They're just doing a little reading. Look, John African needs to be read to as he goes to bed. Can I ask you a question? Is it wrong to have a hobby? I'll tell you what Dave if there's one thing I've learned on the dollop. It's yeah Sometimes it is wrong to have a hobby In September 1977 10 remember reader reactor. Oh, well, it's a hobby. I have I don't have any skin And I in September 1977 10 move members headed by John Africa were indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of conspiracy and of manufacturing and possessing bombs But when federal agents and police went to serve the warrants John Africa was gone Then mayor Rizzo said quote They wouldn't be able to get away with what they're in communist countries. They love that's what's wrong with America. We're backing off too much Wait, what is this point? This is the man. Yeah mayor Rizzo. What is this point? He's saying that the okay, so he's calling him communist Yeah, and he's saying so if this was fucking communist China or communist it would be okay, Yugoslavia then They would they would be able to get away with right They wouldn't be able to get away with that their communist China be like we're gonna fuck your shit up Yeah, and that's what's wrong with America is we're letting these fucking hippies She's asking He's one of the rare. Yeah, he is a rare. He is a rare guy saying that we should be more communist You just you know, you don't hear a lot of that rhetoric around this Here it you don't hear it from a guy who's saying let's take the really bad part Yeah, you know, there's a lot of good to communism. Let's not focus on that. They would fuck these assholes up Okay In late 1970s and mayor Rizzo ordered police to barricade move headquarters So they come in and they just put walls on the street and they they literally barricade and Blocked the building the irony that the group's name is move. I mean, yeah, you won't be moving move Oh, we're gonna move you won't move move. There comes the moving man. Jesus. I think moves gonna try to move and So they supporters defied the mayor and brought the modern supplies. So you see video of their barricaded and hippies are Coming with bags of shit like hey man. Hey, hey, hey, hey, brother. I like what you're doing I mean fight the man fight the man. It's all like shit real bad by the way, but here man So, uh, it's really great. So Then he says oh wait Supporters defied brought supplies on August 8th, 1978 after negotiations failed police move in. Okay The police will be in there to drag them out by the backs of their necks. They're gonna be taken by force if they resist never underestimate an opponent Never underestimate an opponent always get in there with more than is necessary and you overpower them mayor Rizzo Mayor Rizzo is not a good mayor. What do you mean? Well, first of all mayor Rizzo has not has not have a ring to it It's bad. It's kind of guttury Hello mafia, and I'm also noticing his policies for that of shoot first ask questions Oh, yeah, there's definitely a hey, we're gonna fuck them up feeling about all this. Yeah You want to fuck me? I'm gonna fuck you Address Philadelphia Square Hey look me in the fucking eyes mayor Rizzo second term will give these hippies AIDS mayor Rizzo re-election speech It's all Shit we have on TV. Why can't I see the mayor Rizzo? There is oh my god. Just the fucking yeah, it's time Yeah now I Quote move when the police came in with a bulldozer and started It's a great start and started knocking down their fence sure bulldozer comes in and starts knocking down their fence Yeah to get to their shit those poor rats You sons of bitches are goddamn motherfuckers goddamn motherfucking pigs. God damn it. I'm saying come on with it Motherfuckers will shit on you goddamn fools. So that's their response to the bulldozer Well, it feels like both sides are a little erratic. What do you root for? The co-op old lady who's like I wanted a garden I'm running for the dogs So after the police take down the fence they start moving in Firemen set up two fire hoses and are spraying hoses at the house I mean you just know that these hippies are just so outmatched. Oh, but then move shoots You can see it on video all the cops and firemen start to scatter One of the fire hoses just going crazy because one of the firemen got shot So one of the fire hoses just fucking squirting all over the road like you see in a cartoon Yeah, like in the three stitches Cops are shot Firemen are shot one cop is dead officer James ramp I was wrong So then they're like, oh we have a real situation on our hands And then they continue to spray the house Is it time to stop spraying? Well, I think I think that They they've got the fence down. Yeah, and they're like, well if you move in it's gonna be a fucking gunfight from hell Right, but if they just keep spraying the house you just imagine just sitting in a house. That's like Like soaked yeah, you're in the basement or whatever and it's just fucking soaked eventually. I don't want to be here anymore Yeah, but I mean you would just you know, it made me be like I don't want to be here at all How how long do you want to be wet? I mean how long damp? I got a little day really really it's serious. No damn for day But I'd be like I'd be like yeah, I'd be like yeah, it's annoying I'm wet it's annoying really for how long I Mean for I could go for days. Yeah, but then it's over at some point. You're like, I don't want to be wet But I have guns. I'd be like keep shooting shoot till they stop dampening us one by one Remove baby one by one 12 adult move members and some children were driven from the compound You flush from its basement by water When one guy came out to give it to give up to the cops They just beat the shit out of him live on the news. So you just see them. They're just kicking a guy in the head Never heard of anything like that. Right? I mean he did shoot a cop. So everyone's like Yeah, there's video of them just kicking some guy when he rolls around on the ground John Africa was not among them Then they tore down the house, okay, please just knock the shit them knocked it down sure I mean again, it's crazy strategy But sure move members think there was a police cover-up and that police shot officer James ramp. Oh, wow Because that's how cops operate Well, yeah a lot of times in the first the beginning the cops will be like shoot him and then we'll blame them shoot Jimmy That's how they're thinking. Yeah, then I think it a protecting themselves Does it then Jimmy was like I was working for ID but Jimmy's plan? He was like, okay guys, I'll move over there kill me and then go you shoot me in the back of the head And then you got those motherfuckers earn it then earn it But then move members also said stuff like the people who know us know that we are not terrorists we fight cops because they are Dirty, they are filthy. They are criminal So the first sentence doesn't go along the first sentence doesn't go with the second sentence at all It's almost like they're completely opposite sentences The people who know us know that we are not terrorists fine. Fair We fight cops because they are dirty. They are filthy. They are criminal. Okay, wait Also, we didn't shoot that cop, okay, I'm having a hard time and we killed that cop That's our statement read it back Okay, good nine move members were prosecuted for the murder of officer ramp. They were sentenced to 30 to 100 years So nine of them are put away real rough real rough sentence to the district attorney brought charges against the cops who beat The move guy on camera, okay And even though it was clearly videotaped that they committed a crime. They were found not guilty. Why wow? Not not by a jury, but by a judge. They didn't even they were like no We don't need no jury, which means that they chose a judge that was like yeah kicking a guy in the head school. Yeah All right Yeah, that's lunch. How about a four-minute trial you guys good with that? Good. Yeah, that sounds great Well, the barricade was going down three men named Jimmy Lee fart. Oh my god. I thought you said Jimmy Lee fart Jimmy Lee fart Sounds like Jimmy Lee fart Ernie invincible fart Ernie and Vince Lee fart wait a minute bought property what? the fart brothers Phrt the fart brothers Sometimes this does seem like a plan that was come up by a guy with a third grade education Mr.. Fart that's dr.. Fart. This is my brother mr.. Fart snigger stinger. Yes We're the farts hello, my name is Jimmy Lee Jimmy Lee farts. Yeah, it's my brother Bobby who fart We're the farts you call this the farts brought property The farts bought property did they the farts brought property in Rochester, New York They were of course aliases and one was federal fugitive John Africa Who we gonna be Johnny we're gonna be the five brothers the five brothers move up. Yeah ready five brothers move it in, okay? So move bought seven houses We're the farts we just moved next door What's what do you guys do potlucks? Are you guys doing right here? That's right fart the farts Yeah, we said right on the mailbox where the fire Can't we pick that name move bought seven houses over the next four years and a gas station, and then they moved to Rochester Stockades went up around them. It was the same old powder. They dug up driveways so the earth could breathe Weird pattern gotta gotta gotta let the earth breathe Oh my God, Jesus. I thought that was never good I was dying under there Hey the farts the porches were torn off the houses and slats were put over windows John Africa became known in the neighborhood as the dude who enjoyed running. He was running in the streets and bare feet every day Then he started putting out bones for stray dogs and rats Here ready ready ready Some neighbors began to become upset They were conflicts that attracted the attention of the ATF. Yeah, I mean they really if you're the if you're the farts Yeah, just lay low Just chill out just so I respond one way to lay low is not to cut yourself the farts. Yeah, no big big red flag I mean, there's not a lot of people with the last name just need to go to ATF headquarters as a board with a picture up There's the leader Jimmy fart what? All right, stop laughing. Come on you guys this serious now. These guys are serious business. We're gonna smoke the farts out of the house What is so goddamn? Why are you laughing? God damn it? All right now back to project fart Anyway Larry queef One day several vehicles pulled up and John Africa who was walking a dog on the street was arrested They just pulled up in the guy Agent rolled down the window and he's like I've been looking for you and John Africa's like I know and he just got it Like that was it. It was that easy. Okay? In interrogation he said his name was Vincent life and then he was one year old Google gaga is my statement I'd say he said it was okay that move made bombs because society had made all the chemicals to make bombs and they just Mix them together. Okay, that's legal. No that means that You can make everything on earth. If you just have the shit Yeah, so your whole organization is built on fucking bullshit. Well, because if you're talking about going back to nature Everything out there that people make you can use which is everything You know you hold on a goddamn second what this whole operation is built on dog shit. Okay, not bullshit All right. I'm sorry son of a bitch. Everything else is completely valid John Africa's trial went smooth What he chose to defend himself? He was very he was very respectful One of the prosecutors thought this was the strongest case he had ever had in his career a third grade education Glassy was the star witness two other movement members defected and Backed up glassy statements. They had the bombs. They had the weapons Africa's co-defendant Alfonso Robbins Just put witness after witness up on the stand to testify that John Africa had cured back problems epilepsy smoking marital problems and drug addictions so There's there's a couple things there's a couple different trials going on I can't believe that he cured epilepsy one is a guy's trying to get a TV show. Yeah The China press He even said it had caught He even said John Africa had cost it to rain when police were blockading the palatin compound Which was actually the hoses. Yeah so lots of it to a torrential downpour Really located at one area and then it would move very focused ray very very it was like a storm cloud Followed us through it all John Africa only spoke twice Once to cross-examine an ATF agent and once to deliver his closing argument On the move was John Africa's greeting as he faced the jury for his closing argument I love him. I love him on the move. Everyone's like oh this guy's gonna get down to business Before he was finished living what amounted to a bizarre sermon John Africa would cry ten times he was by his rights a Victim I'm not a guilty man. I'm an innocent man. I'm fighting for air that you've got to know I'm a guilty man. I'm an innocent man. I'm fighting for air that you've got to breathe And I'm fighting for water that you've got to drink and if it gets any worse, you're not gonna be drinking that water I'm fighting for food that you've got to eat and you know, you've got to eat it And if it gets any worse, you're not gonna be eating that food Don't you see if you took this thing all the way all the way you would have clean air clean water clean soil and Be quenched of industry, but you see that they don't want that Monkeys don't shoot people but people shoot monkeys yet Monkeys are seen as unclear and people are seen as intelligent You can go as far as you want in the forest and you won't find no jails Because animals of the forest don't believe in jail but come to civilization And that's all you see at rest my case. He needs to see the last plan of the ape Because his whole argument is bullshit It really is they have guns and jails. Yes. Hello Caesar's quite a man. This is way after the fucking movies have come out all five of them now Here's what's crazy, right? Okay. So what he's saying is not that awful what he's saying is I want to protect us from pollution and You know the government right it's like I'm trying to do that work of the planet Yeah, however the plan also monkeys out of jails also monkeys do not have jails right the plan the way he Pitches the plan is not clear or good. Well, I don't know but what he's going for is jury nullification Do you know what that is? Oh, no, so during and like if you go if you sit on jury for a guy that is being prosecuted for Smoking pot sure you can say I don't believe that's a Just law right and just say not guilty based on jury nullification Wow, okay, so I think that's what he's going for so he's trying to get them to basically not believe in the crime He's charged right, right, okay. I Wish I knew that was a thing the jury deliberated for six days Okay, now this is the prosecutor says it's the strongest case he ever had in his career He's like what in the fuck is happening Africa Robbins were acquitted Wow the prosecute Prosecution was stunned it was the only case one prosecutor ever lost in his whole career Wow they had so much evidence they were Withdrawing some evidence during trial presentation They'll be exhausted how many bombs do we have to show them just ease up Yeah, we could show them ten instead of thirty they were over evidence to you guys have you heard of over evidence? We're over selling this crime We're talking ourselves out of a guilty as he walked to his car is such a great video as John Africa's walking to his car He was asked how he felt when the verdict was read and he said nothing. I was asleep It was true. He was sleeping half the time After his acquittal John Africa moved to home on Osage Avenue that his sister owned He was now obsessed with his own power telling his followers that he had outsmarted the entire United States He began convincing the kids to hate their parents and started ordering move kids to beat up their parents He then told the young children that he was now their mother and father New rules I'm your parents and then those people that Used to be your parents. I want you to beat up beat him up beat him up Thank you uncle fart seen children of the flies We're doing that who's got the coach I do you'll be piggy we're gonna get you You'll be piggy we're gonna use your glasses to make fire and burn your parents Africa never ventured outside the Osage Avenue Headquarters it was a blue-collar neighborhood kids were playing ball on the streets parents would sit on the stoop Everyone knows each other And then right in the middle that crazy fucking people move into a house board up the windows immediately and Then start blasting from a loudspeaker You motherfuckers what the fuck are you doing out there? Do you know what's going on here you sons of bitches? You're around here fucking everybody up. What the fuck is going on? Oh boy, you're like who is this guy right? I don't vote for him. Did we buy in the wrong neighborhood? Just blasting this new hip-hop is very unfocused. The new neighbors are a bummer Next our neighbors would just lay in bed at night and cry and hope the city would come find a way to deal with the situation You certainly couldn't talk to the move members They would go down the street to the park cut down trees and drag the logs up the street and into the house Wood would be stacked up in the front of the house There was so much of it neighbors asked them to do something about it so move put all the wood on the roof They built two bunkers on the roof. What so in the middle this roof bunkers so in the room It's on the middle of this nice little street. There's one house that has all the board all the windows boarded up And then they also took the they like took the wood paneling off the building so you could you know You can look through little slats. Yeah, take off the paneling They did that they built the bunkers up top with holes to shoot guns out of now. I know why he wasn't an exterior design And then there's a fence made of trees in the front yard with compost Piles this compost has got to stop and there's like dudes climbing up the front of the house like Repelling up with axes on their back and you're just like I'm gonna take my kids. I feel like our property values gone down Am I crazy to think that the neighborhood is not what it used to be Since they started becoming I remember I would get upset about where Jim parked his car And this seems so much. We used to just get angry about the bush hanging over the fence But now it's just like God I long for those days. I was There's a pile of shit in what used to be a driveway literally a shit pile I'm not even using a you. This is literally a pile of shit On May 3rd 1984 a dude went on top of the move house with a shotgun Wearing a mask on his face. Hey, that's comfortable to come home to police came there was a standoff Stand-up lasted two hours. Please never entered the house and no arrests were made no arrests Well because technically it's not a crime Is it not a crime to sit on the roof of your house with a mask and a loaded? It's not Not in America cuz I'm out of our fucking well, I know now I mean when I was in college We got into a beef with a guy across the street who was a real fucking weirdo And they were like five of us living in the house and it was it was a suburban place and the dude Went into his house and brought out like a fucking Dirty hairy gun like a huge pistol and just sat there staring at our house Sitting on his car and we called the cops and the cops came they're like, yeah, that's Jimmy. He's cool Like he's not fucking that's like a threat and like yeah, no, it's cool So we had it for two days. He just sat out there with a gun staring at our house It's legal. The cops are like sounds illegal The cops like he has a he has a right to the gun Well now he's on his property you now you can go to restaurants with like 8k 40s Yeah, but that's that's how it should be cuz just in case well, you never know How are you gonna eat out without the safety of knowing that you can protect your family better eating your home fries with a man Who has a loaded Uzi have you seen red dawn? Do you know what's happening? Things are good here So The Philadelphia DA got permission from the courts to evict move The info they got to up all the evictions was from two people Members who were confidential informants one was the woman owned the house who happened to be John Africa's sister Who he had his nephew beat up? So the DA pursued charges of disorderly conduct parole violation criminal conspiracy and terroristic threats on May 12 1985 The police began to evict the street Osage Avenue in the surrounding area. Naturally. It was Mother's Day. What else would you do? Great time. You've had so much time. Yeah mother's day. Yeah They told neighbors they would have to be out of the house for 24 hours a Reporter asked one neighbor what he thought would happen and the man said I think you'll have to kill all of them The police commissioner Commissioner Sambor had premier prepared an announcement for the people inside of the house He read it into a bullhorn like a lunatic attention move. This is America. I mean seriously Like who on the who in this story isn't a crazy asshole? It's like I finally get to be in that Rambo movie. This is America This is America talking Like what in the fuck so then he reads the warrants This is different. It's not American. Yeah, the police check. Yeah, just say your fucking name your police commissioner Sambor job This is America. Okay, that This is America and then moves like no, this is America motherfucker. Oh, no, they fucking did not Did they just say they're America Move said they would not surrender They said they would kill all the cops and then the cops wives would be sleeping with other men before the end of the day It's quite a bold proclamation. It's pretty soon. It's pretty presumptuous. Is it not grieving? So they're they're just assuming that that once they kill these cops their wives you know, I got a fuck something. Oh my god Yeah, yeah, they also the cops wives be sleeping with black men before the end of the day. How dare they so on one hand, they're saying Your wives are course you're gonna be fucking black man, but then they're all are they also saying the black men aren't That great because they're saying it's dirty to fuck a boy. Yeah, they're definitely they're hitting a lot There's a lot of shrapnel to go around Yeah, they're definitely they're hitting a lot. There's a lot of shrapnel to go around right now. Yeah They're definitely saying that the wives are whores and that they're black men whores, which are worth later whores. They're so bad They're gonna sleep with guys like us. Yeah, okay. I'm not sure Yeah Coming from the guys who live on shit mountain the cops Started spraying tear gas a whole shitload of tear gas. It just more rain It's just a giant cloud more rain. We pray that this rain hurts. It's in our eyes So tear gas is covering the whole neighborhood Then move shot at the cops with automatic weapons, okay Everyone could hear the automatic weapons firing and then had to be coming from move But after the entire episode was over, please do not find any automatic weapons They didn't have any guns capable automatic fire it turns out But the police commissioner is positive that move shot with automatic weapons, but he can't explain why they didn't have automatic weapons Sometimes guns dissolve Yeah, I've seen that in Terminator or they're just yeah, they turn into dust or whatever. Yeah. Yeah dust guns So clearly the cop shot first. Are you sure? I think so Okay, so they shoot a bunch of tear gas so no no news cameras can be around right and there's nothing no witnesses No witnesses, but he let them they start fucking shooting on the house So Now once they shoot they can be treated as violent felons right in the middle of a crime So that's that's now where we are now. They're violent felons. Yeah can be you can do whatever you want. Yep The move people sent the kids down to the garage and the men went up to the roof There were three women four men and six children in the house house. John Africa was one of them The police ran out of bullets in the morning They used 10,000 rounds of ammunition In the morning, they used 10,000 rounds of ammunition in the morning. Holy shit. Happy Mother's Day Apparently it sounded like Vietnam. It was just like the most fucking insane 10,000 bullets. Yeah Because of the bunker think that there would be a casualty. Oh, well, we've been shooting at a house It's silly think somebody be like, all right. I'm just gonna shit. Well, they have bunkers. Yeah, fair Yeah, right Because of the bunkers on the roof police police thought move were in a better tactical situation than them The cops sprayed fire cannons at the bunker off a crane like they did before with the other house 10,000 10,000 gallons a minute and they want to knock the bunker over Now move had already gone through the water torture episode. Yeah, so now they're like me Well, so they had they had a they had a plan to counter They put tarps on the bunker. So no water got in It's amazing how simple yeah You know, we should get this time tarps. So they're just like god damn it. They got tar that's fucking bunker isn't coming down This is America You'll type trick So then everyone took a break had lunch Like alright every let's just take a smoke take five I think five And while they're sitting around it's 5 p.m. Someone from the bomb squad Was like hey, I got an idea Why don't we fly a helicopter over the house and we'll drop a bomb on it and Everyone was like that sounds cool. Whoa, the mayor was like, yeah, I'm good. This is America after all Everyone was like, yeah, I don't see what could go wrong The police loaded a satchel with four pounds of water gel explosive and C4 plastic explosives on a 45 second fuse I love your face right now. I wish people could see your face The helicopter helicopter hovered about 15 feet over the roof and drops They were about to drop it We went full dollop What You were so on board for the whole thing You're so like, yeah, this is yeah, this all makes and yeah, they dropped a huge bomb on the roof Um, it explodes and the bunkers still there What the fuck? So five minutes after the bomb smoke starts pouring out of the house and the police turned off the water cannon The sweeties because hey, there's fire. Shut it down. Shut it down. Shut it down. Shut it down. We're hurting ourselves That's what you do when there's fire, right? Then 15 minutes later the fire is now raging out of the house. Now it's fire coming out of the house They still did not turn on the fire cannon. You see where this is going? Yeah The fire commissioner was told by the police commissioner to let the fire burn Because he wanted the tactical situation. He wanted the bunker to burn down. Yeah And the fire commissioner was like, yeah, that sounds good. I'm just a fire commissioner. It's fine if there's a fire burning in the middle of the city I don't know what I know. Okay. These are good sandwiches. What is this? Uh, egg. We says like is a bologna. That's amazing So it burned yeah and it burned And the mayor is watching on TV in his office in City Hall now Philadelphia mayor Rizzo Philadelphia is one of the last no, this is a different now now we have a black mayor Oh god, he's probably sleeping with some of those cop wives, right? So he's watching us TV now Philadelphia is one of the last cities to get cable in America Okay, by assume because of all the mob shit and whatever else sure so he's watching on an antenna in his office You know old school. Yeah, and he saw water coming in pouring onto the fire He later realized after several minutes that that was just bad reception. It was snow. Oh shit Is the dots not water? Yeah Fire dots And then he realized there's a bad TV signal and he ordered them to put the fire out That was at 6 p.m. The police commissioner said that he told the fire commissioner to put out the fire but the fire commissioner said the police commissioner did not tell him to put out the fire So it just kept burning There's a stakeout video from across the street like right across the street there and they're in a in a building sure windows open and the the the house that the John Africa in is engulfed in flames right? And the cops are talking on the video you can hear them talking well that it's pointed at the house and the cops say I bet they won't call the police commissioner a motherfucker anymore and then they all just laugh and they all just laugh because it's a fucking barbecue So now it's getting dark Oh yeah it is remember the last time they had to stand up for the cops and they beat the shit out of that guy yeah right on the news yep now wouldn't you say that of those three cops you wouldn't have one of them now in a tactical position that's very important during this no you would not have him in that position one of the cops who was put on trial for beating up the move guy in 1978 was there he was behind the house in the alley with his partner the only place that he could have been in the house that no one could see with cameras and they had a machine gun oh my god so there's no view of anything from anybody just whatever those guys say happen happen the house is completely engulfed in flames in the alley the move members open up the garage door and say they're coming out specifically they yell they want to get the kids out police say Ray Africa then came out and started shooting but a boy who was in the house later said that Ray did not have a gun in his hands because he was carrying a child and a monkey wrench that he helped to use to open the garage door and monkey wrenches don't shoot yet not yet someday so the fire at this point starts jumping from building to building then the boy says he heard they actually asked the kid in court in a deposition make the sound of mating as it just taps on the so the shooting the fucking machine gun at then Ray ran back inside the house and put the garage door back up the cops say he ran back into the inferno because they were going to regroup and figure out a new plan there's a great video of a minister being like can you tell me what makes a man run into fire and the cops are like just to regroup and he goes I guess I'm trying to understand because for me that wouldn't make me run into fire and the cops are like yeah I know it's weird it's a weird thing it's a weird thing weird guy yeah they love fire they love the guy loved fire a really big fan of fire big fire guy so the cops say all they said was come on down with your hands up but they also had a machine gun one kid ran out his name was Bertie and a woman named Ramona Africa at that point everything was on fire the cops said it looked like they just ran out of fire Ramona was on one side of the fence and tried to lift Bertie over but she dropped him and he fell down and was knocked out or winded briefly so a cop decided to go help even though the cops were other cops like don't fuck around it's a trap she's going to shoot you he ran over and grabbed the kid and got him safely out Ramona and Bertie were the only move members to survive everyone died in the fire the fire kept burning sixty one homes burned down the whole neighborhood burned everyone is like get out of here for Mother's Day it'll be fine yeah yeah families were like oh we're here to celebrate our mother oh there's not going to be a thing there it's just like a city block is burned to nothing it's ashes worth it right that's what I'm saying the city's first black mayor had dropped a bomb on a black neighborhood in the wake of the disaster mayor good said the police commissioner and manager and managing director had done outstanding jobs quote it did not turn out as we had intended but it was the right decision it was a good plan and it could have worked hey you know what almost better luck next time do we get an almost there mulligan mulligan mulligan you know what next time a smaller bomb hey you live you learn you know what what's wrong with trying you live you learn Jesus a few days later he apologized tearfully on TV and he was reelected in 1988 what do you have to do in Philadelphia to not get reelected I mean really burned down sixty four houses and killed twelve people or whatever like you children like you have it this guy's unattractive and the other makers just crazy yeah I guess. The mayor left politics in 1991 become a minister he now runs a youth mentoring program city of Philadelphia paid to rebuild the houses so that was nice right sweet sweethearts oh the houses were all condemned in 2001 because of shoddy construction did I leave that part out that's cool finally the mayor street offered owners one hundred fifty thousand and threatened to demolish the houses for those who didn't accept his offer cool well then just sweet throughout the whole process. Why do Philadelphia's have this like why do people think they're mean I don't know it is weird that people think that many took the buyout but twenty four families went to federal court in 2005 the twenty four homeowners won a twelve million dollars suit against the city for botched rebuilding and repairs on their homes so that's good right yeah in 2008 a three judge federal appeals panel reduced that amount to one hundred fifty thousand for all the homeowner. Hey fuck up here's my here's my judgment fuck you all right that's recess we're joined hey you go fuck yourselves hey oh I want a house. My judge balls in Philadelphia. Yeah. Ramona Africa represented herself in court and she went to jail for several years the cop who testified in the commission hearing about the events who ran to birdie and saved his life was named James Berg here he had nigger lover written on his police locker he was diagnosed with PTSD and left the force in 1987. He saved a kid's life and the other cops were furious a child he saved a child. He's in the commission in the commission hearings he's like almost crying about having what he's about being a part of killing people he's almost crying and the other cops. Look like bad guys from an 80s helicopter heist movie they've got mustaches and like yeah so you know they can see crying they came out they came out trying to shoot at us out of the fireball and we were like fuck you like it's yeah. Yeah. The commission found the commission investigated found Mayor good and two other officials police Commissioner George Sam Bor and Fire Commissioner William Richmond had been grossly negligent the deaths of the moved children appeared to be unjustified homicide it said the report charged good with political cowardice and called the city's actions morally reprehensible no charges were filed. Birdie whose real name was Michael Ward went to live with his father who had been stationed in the military overseas during this whole thing birdie died at the age of 41 when he got drunk and passed out in a hot tub on a Caribbean cruise. That's how I want to go. Such a better ending yeah such a better ending. Was this wine. That's hot. You know it's good. Jim. Even be able to go under the water. Oh boy. Move is still around its members still agitate. Move is still around its members still agitating for the release of the eight members who have been imprisoned for the 1978 cop killing. Most of the two dozen or so members all of whom take the surname Africa live in a house three miles from Osage Avenue. They eat a lot of raw food they home schooled their children but the tactics have changed since the bombing drew the world's attention. Yeah good. Ramona Africa who's now out of jail says it's not necessary for us to be on the bullhorn now. People are calling us for information. They speak of John Africa in the present tense even though his body was recovered in the house. Oh. Was it. My friend John Josh Olson reminded me of that story. It's a real feel good tale. In the 1980s an American police force murdered and bomb and murdered a group of assholes. But yeah children still and burned down 64 houses in 1984. Good times. How you like an American now. Just you know just the pride I feel. Hard to contain. I just. That's great. That's a great story. What a great tale from American history. I'm glad moves still around too. That's good. Yeah. Well it's all it's all good. I mean yeah it's all good like the mayor's last name. It's all good. Yeah. It's all good. I bet that was a campaign slogan. Yeah. Mayor Good. That's what is that's an appropriate title for this. And sometimes fire. That's you know what. Sometimes you got burned on a house. Sometimes you got a burned on a house. You got to drop a bomb on a house and kill a bunch of kids. Prove a point. Sometimes you got a level of neighborhood. You'll never forget Mother's Day. That's right. Happy Mother's Day. Crazy. That's a good one. It's a good one. I was going to do that at Podfest and then I was like no gets too fucked up with the end. Yeah. Yeah. Everyone would just be like what. I want to be like. I smoke again. They spray paint in what on a smoker. How many kids died. Yeah. Let's set off balloons. Well good stuff. Good stuff Anthony. Yeah. Well done. Thinking about. I mean you get you get citizenship in. Well yeah in England I can. Yeah. And I will. How much better is there but. No. Listen rain is rain there. It's not. All right. God bless. God bless America. Hi everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the dollar podcast. I'm Gareth. I'm a Hi everybody. This is Gareth Reynolds from the dollar podcast. This is the show you're listening to. I'm Gareth Reynolds from the dollar podcast. I'm Gareth Reynolds from the dollar podcast.