 my friend. That's our new opening theme. It isn't no because it was not discussed. It's my show. It's not how it works. I know you have that attitude but that's not how it works. Yeah and I'm here with my guest. No, no. Dave Anthony here with my guest Gary Reynolds. First of all what the fuck. I'm the co-host. My name is Gareth. Very presumptuous. No, I don't think that I can shut this down at any time. I'm soaking you though. Yeah, I mean I could too. Yeah, all right. No, although I have a guy that would be great in my place. Who's that? My friend Jose. He's good. You'll love him. He'd be better honestly. So if you ever do, let me know. I'll be really gracious about it. I'm a big fan of Jose's. Good. Oh, so here's something we learned at PodFest. Everyone's under the assumption that the way that iTunes rankings work is this convoluted formula of reviews and all the shit. That's why everyone is always saying do reviews but it turns out reviews don't count towards the rankings. All it is is who people who subscribe. So subscribe. You get more points for whatever reason if you subscribe on the app on your iPhone. So even if you don't use iTunes but you have an iTunes account, just go subscribe and that'll help us out. Yeah, we'll show them. And if you do have an iTunes account and you haven't subscribed, then what the fuck? Yeah, we're not mad. We're not mad but we're not happy with you. We don't get it. We don't know what your problem is. Yeah, we're a little rubbed. Jesus Christ. Oh wow. This is, is this how much it normally is? No, this is long. This is long. Okay, yeah. I never get this insight. Oh and also people think a lot of times I know what's going to happen. No, you have no idea. Yeah, I never know what's going to happen. You don't even know what the subject is. Sometimes I'll say hey, have you ever heard of this? I think there's been one time where I've known the subject before going in and I just saw it on Twitter. I'd rather not know. Yeah, of course. It's more fun that way. This one's called The Two Dogmen. Oh boy. I'm a strong start. The year was 1813. Sure. Henry Berg was born on the Lower East Side of New York City with a silver spoon in his mouth. Prick. A little richie, richie. He was raised on Water Street. His father was a very wealthy ship builder who built ships for the US Navy and merchant vessels and was actually the first ship builder to hire black men. That's good. So that's something, right? That's nice. That's a little something going on there. Yeah. He became very wealthy and quite important during the War of 1812 when ships were needed to be constructed quickly. Okay. So that's how he made it. He ended up being, by the time he died, he had built more ships for the Navy than anyone else. Okay. So that's some shit. Yeah. Right? You're going at a fucking family right there. Yeah. No joke. No, that's not. No, I did. I come across like I thought it was a joke. Your eyes. Your eyes are weird. Excuse me. You got weird eyes, kid. Henry, however, was unsure of what to do with his life other than just being a rich kid. Just do that. Right. Well, that's yeah, it's kind of what he does. Okay. He went to Columbia University, but he was indifferent to all the reading and whatnot. And the everything. And he bailed. He was like, man, this is they aren't kidding about these books. These are real. You got to read, read, read, read and buy. I'm gassed. In 1831, he decided to head to Europe and just fart around the continent. Just kind of like this guy. Yep. He enjoyed it there. And he decided to linger for a while. So he stayed in Europe. Sure. Where he tried to be a writer. Okay, good. He wrote letters he hoped would be enjoyed by the masses. They were not. He wrote plays, all of which were unproduced. They were all very sentimental with obvious moral lessons. And everyone was like, Yeah, I don't. Yeah, it's really not like smarter, unique. We're not actually trying to do like obvious theater. Yeah. That's his theater company. Welcome to obvious theater. Come on, cast. The year Henry Berg went to Europe, another man was born into the world. Kit Burns. Kit. Well, he wasn't originally born Kit, but that's what his nickname became. KIT. Yeah. Okay. He was born in Donegal, Ireland. All right. And immigrated to New York around 1845. One of hundreds of thousands who fled the potato famine. Oh, that is again. Fucking potato famine. God damn it. He came alone at the age of 15. Wow. Yeah, that's fucked up. Yeah. Hey, I'm tired. Nah, just not eating. So I'm gonna get on this ship. What? Yeah, I'm 15. Fuck you. I'm an adult. I have pubic hair. Sort of. Sailing the seas. I have peach fuzz. Here I am on a journey across an ocean alone. And he settled into the Five Points neighborhood of New York. All right. Made famous in gangs of New York. With better accents in reality. Much better accents in reality. The Five Points was a squalid district, mostly of Irish immigrants. The streets were full of cramped tenements, brothels and bars. Underneath the Five Points was a now filled pond. It was rancid with tannery and slaughterhouse runoff. Wait, underneath it? So they filled in. So it was a fucking pond. The lower end of Manhattan used to just be swamp and pond. Okay. So they filled it in and they built these houses, but it didn't mean all the shit didn't still run down. So underneath all the houses is just fucking blood, guts and shit. Better. Better. Marginally better. Marginally better. It still smells weird in the house. Yeah, but you don't have to look at it, do you? Just put a clothespin on your nose and pretend like it's not happening, will you? Outhouses stood right next to Wells and alcoholism was the main hobby. I love hobby. I don't know. I just kind of got into it. Kind of fell into it. I'm a bit of a collector of blackouts, if you know what I mean. Oh, I'm falling down again. Whoopsie-doopsie. Don't mind me. I'll just be here. It's a bit of a hobby I've got over here. You can only read. What am I doing? I'm hobbying. I got bit by the alcohol bug again. Anyway, I'm going to go swim in the blood pond. You used to be into stamps. This is the new stamp. I'm collecting my thoughts. There was not a place in the United States with a higher crime rate. Oh, no. Shocking. No. Owning a bar was what every man in Five Points strived for. If you owned a bar- This is the greatest. I know. If you own a bar, not only could you make a lot of money, but it came with power because all information and news was filtered through the saloons, and this gave bar owners the ability to sway blocks of voters for politicians. So Fox News with Boots. Exactly. Crazy Irish. That would be great. They're just boring you a shot full of propaganda. Here you go. Here you are. You know what I hear. We hear if you want to be free for the next 10 years, demand a vote for us, did emmy. I think you might. Oh, for the kind of- You're very kind. Shutting a word. Shutting a word. As bad as it was in Five Points, it still allowed for a chance at more prosperity than the immigrants would have experienced in their own countries, mostly because they were dying because there were enough potatoes. Such a shame too. Even though most of the prosperity in America in Five Points was through criminal means. Right. Yes. Yes. Things are good. In the late 1840s, Kit Burns became involved in gang life. So he's there for a couple of years. He's like, oh, fuck this. I'm going to put on some suspenders and beat up men. I guess my dream of opening a bar is a pipe dream. I'm just going to go curb that man. Burns rose quickly through the ranks of the dead rabbits. We weren't a dead rabbits. They do the like snap like the sharks. Your rabbit's not alive. Your rabbit is dead. We're going to beat you right around your head. Dead rabbits. Back then, a rabbit was a term used to describe a big tough man. Things have changed. He's quite a rabbit, isn't he? Boy, he's a rabbit, isn't he? Run, rabbits. A dead rabbit was even tougher. Well, he's bigger than a rabbit, young. Boy, he's not a rabbit at all. He's a dead rabbit. The rabbits fought with other gangs like the Bowery Boys and the Atlantic Guards. They used fists and iron bars and brick bats and pistols and paving stones and pitchforks and knives. They often battled in their undershirts. Hold on now. I'm taking off me top. I don't want to get pitchfork on it. Pitchfork as a weapon in a fight. I'd be like, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not fighting you. I'm not fighting you. Let me put my shirt back on to show you. Shirt's on. Buttoned up. I'm not fighting anyone. Not fighting. I'm going to the bar for some advice on politics. What is that, a brick bat? They drank ridiculous amounts of alcohol. Burns was known to drink 20 glasses of booze a day. Oh, fuck. I'm barely alive. I caught a bit of a bush finally. Now, Henry Berg was still poorly riding his way through Europe. Oh, gosh. In 1836, his father said he was going to retire and it was time for Henry to come home and manage the shipyard. Yep, because he'd earned it by riding 30 shipways. Come on home, Henry. I've seen all the shit you write. Come on. Listen, after reading what you've written, I decided you're going to run the business. You're horrendous. You can't be worse at this. He ran it with his brother, Christian. Henry was very bummed out when he came home. But there he met a rich society girl, Catherine Matilda Taylor, and married her. What a rich name. Right? Yeah. These are just rich fucking assholes. Catherine Matilda Taylor. Yeah, my middle name is Matilda. That's right. Oddly, Henry's actually good at the job of running the firm. Okay. The business thrived and expanded as he helped transition to the age of steam power. Then his father died in 1943. Okay. And in 1943? Sorry, 1843. Okay. His dad's 200. Well, I don't know if I could push on. This is the story about the oldest man in the world. Put more steam in me, boy. And so his father died and Henry was like, well, fuck this shit. And he sold his portion of the firm, which gave him an enormous amount of cash. And he retired at the age of 32. Oh, God. Retired from working for two years. And this is when 32, well, I guess it was older, actually. Well, you could die at 32. Yeah, 32. That was probably the common age where you just fell over. I can't move anymore. So this guy. I'm done moving. So this guy did nothing except for two years, then he retired and was a rich guy. Sounds really good. So he went back to Europe. In this day and age, reality show bound. Oh my God. Yeah. Absolutely. Oh, fuck. Yeah. He didn't earn it. Now let's watch him. He hates ships. Watch him write shit. On tonight's Henry the Shippable. I'm going to write a play about donkeys. That's a little bubble that pops up at the bottom. So he went back to Europe where he attempted to continue his life as a playwright that no one produced plays for. Great. What a loser. Back in Five Points, Berms, Burns became very close to a bar owner named Yankee Sullivan. Oh, man. Come on. Get out of my dreams. Yankee Sullivan. What do you think Yankee Sullivan did? I think he was a catcher's mitt. So with eyeballs, Yankee Sullivan was a former boxer. Oh, nice. He was famous for a victory over Johnny Hammer Lane in the championship fight. Come on. It is just great. We need to get back to this time of name. Right. Yeah. The greatest names. The great. Lane fractured a small bone in his forearm in the third round. The fight did not end until the 19th round. Jesus. That's when men were fucking men. Yeah. He had a broken arm. And he's like, I got one. I got one. I'll beat the shit out of you. This is my clubbing arm. It's numb. I wasn't using the other one. So that's Burns buddy. OK. I like the team. Sullivan loved fighting still, but not just humans. He had New York's premier dog fighting pit, the Sawdust House. OK. Burns loved it and he loved dogs. So he quickly became a regular in the arena. Like how he loved dogs. I love dogs. That's why I want to go. I want to go eat. I want to eat each other. You know how much I like dogs. I like to see them just chomp on each other for a while. That's how much I love them. So I picked my favorite. Oh my God. They're so great. I want them to eat each other. He was often seen in the arena without shoes. OK. Sure. I mean, where? Why not? Is there a worse place to not wear shoes? Uh, it sounds like a pretty bad area to not wear shoes in general. It just in general. Yeah. Just in the whole. But just getting in the arena with two snarling fighting dogs. And you're like, oh, my shoes are burdensome. Yeah. I don't want to get my toes on my shoes. He was there for the dog fights and the rat fights. The rat fights. Oh, rat fighting. Come on. Rat fights. OK. Hold on to your asshole, young sir. It's not actually what it sounds like. It's not it's not rat versus rat in an arena. I'm very excited for what it is. A rat fight was when you would put a bunch of rats in the arena and then you threw a dog in. And people would bet on how many rats the dog would kill over a specific amount of time. Then they would set the dog loose and he'd snap their legs and move on, snap their necks and move on to the next rat while the humans all chase him. While the humans all cheered, get them, get them, fight out. Get them fucking rats. It's way worse than a rat fight. It's a rat nightmare. It's a rat apocalypse. Yeah, it's rat pocalypse. Which, by the way, is a great movie starring the voice of Pat Noswold. They never get a chance. Rat pocalypse is fantastic. Oh, my God. Sometimes there will be two dogs in the arena and they can see who kill more rats. So that's good times. Yeah, I could. Could you see this at like the MGM in Vegas? Oh, yeah. Let's get ready for rat fights. Yeah. In this corner, we have a dog. In this corner, 800 rats. Fuck it. Let's do this shit. What's that? People placing bets like, man, if he had fucking hurt his foot, he would have eaten 13 more rats and I would have covered the over. Fuck. I had 124 and he had 123. God damn it. I had the over on the rats. Jesus. The rats were probably just like, there's a mean game they're playing. I was just down at the wharf. I'm eating some of the bacteria from your puke pond. This is how you repay me? The Tribune observed, the rapidity with which a well-trained dog kills rats is astounding to the uninitiated. He bites to kill every time and he usually does it. Burns also trained boxers. In September 1856, he trained Charlie Lynch for a boxing match in New Jersey. His opponent was British born Andy Kelly. The fight lasted two hours and 15 minutes. In the 86th round. Oh, I'm sorry, sir? In the 86th round? You kept fighting until someone couldn't fight. But it's bare knuckle and you're just out in a field and guys are just punching each other. And then I guess someone hits a bell or something and then you go back and you keep fucking fighting. 86. 86 rounds. Day four. Fight. Kelly got up from his stool. Collapsed and fell over dead. Not surprising at all. All right. Cool. Oh, we should have stopped it at 85. He got up. That's what's amazing is he was like one more. Burns was arrested in connection with the fight. Burns was adamant that he had done no wrong and they couldn't hold him and he was released. So why were they going? Why him? Why is he? Because he was one of the guys who put on the fight. So they're like, well, then you're you kill them. So Burns began traveling the East Coast with four metal stakes and lengths of rope to make a ring. He'd hold price fights in the countryside outside of towns. Newspapers wrote of the sandy haired man with mutton chops and a stubbed wooden pipe. Frequently in suspenders with ropes coiled around his arms and stakes over his shoulder. Okay, that's a fucking man. So he described a man like just the ultimate fucking dude. Just a dude shows up in town. He's got four metal stakes. Yeah. A bunch of rope smoking a fucking pipe. He's got mutton chops. He's like, who wants to fight? I'm the commissioner of fighting here. Yeah. Burns was that's great, too, though, because back in those days, I mean, what the fuck? I that's why like rat fights were a thing. I mean, you were just like anything, anything, because all you do is sit. There's no this is what happens when there's no television. No people watch rats get honestly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We have the Kardashians to get mad at. They were like, eat the rats. Do you look at him? He's got all the rats. Oh, Christ. Look at the rats. I never seen such a pile of dead rats. He really murdered a lot. Burns was at so many fights that when he wasn't at a fight, it was news that he was all often. Extra, extra. Burns not at fight. Burns not at fight. Give me one of those. He was often looked to for quotes. He was a man. He once told the reporter gesturing to an image of a prize fighter whose tolerance for alcohol and ability to draw blood he admired. You couldn't count up his points on your fingers. And then he handled himself so tidy. Nothing flabby about him and such a Claret tapper. He always got the Ruby flowing. Man, I need to go back to this time. I belong with these people. Meanwhile, in Europe. By the way, huh? Oh, he's a real sight. Tapper he is. Everything about it makes you shine with belief. He's got it inside your pocket gems. Trust me. This boy is going to be locket material and he's got the ketchup coming out of him. Right. OK, so just to refresh something fierce. He is a ketchup man. It's a ketchup man. Meanwhile, in Europe. Meanwhile, at an empty theater company. Henry Berg was writing plays that nobody cared about and just being generally rich. But the Civil War was starting to brew in America and the South was stepping up its diplomatic efforts in Europe, specifically the Confederacy wanted to make friends with Russia because Russian society was dependent on enslaved serfs, which was the same, which was getting the same condemnation as the South. They're like, can you believe these people in this whole don't enslave people nonsense? Right. Unbelievable. So they were like, oh, you guys, you guys kind of have slaves. We have slaves. We also like slaves. Would you like to be friends? Slave Pals. Hey. We are slave pals. Dear Craig List, I'm looking for a slave pal. Dear Craig List, I need someone to help me with slave pal. So the South wanted Russia to recognize its independence and maybe join the war and help out. OK, good. Berg's family is well known as Republicans and unionists. So Secretary of State William Seward reached out since Henry was already in Europe and could get there quickly and Henry's like, OK, I guess I guess I can do that. Wait, they're sending him there. He's like, so since he's the ambassador, since he's the closest rich guy. That's amazing. To Europe, to Russia, anyone else they'd have to put on. Amazing. They have to put anyone else on a ship. It's not resume based. It's proximity. Well, the kid, the guy who's built the ships, his kid's over there. So we could probably send him. OK. Fuck it. There's probably better people. Go get him. He's close. Like you said, he's close. Have at him. Yeah. So he went there quickly and President Abraham Lincoln appointed him as secretary to the American legation to the court of the czar Alexander II, an acting vice consul of in 1863. That was an acronym. That was a lot. Yeah, an acronym would be nice. Henry was in Russia for less than two years and he hated it. Of course he did. He learned two things. He didn't like the cold and he was terrible at writing plays and Russians treated their animals like garbage. Oh, God. When you miss rat fights, things ain't good. While walking in St. Petersburg one day, he stumbled upon a man whipping a donkey in the street. Henry approached to ask that the man cease beating the donkey and the man complied. I feel like we haven't heard the last from the man. Henry was surprised to discover that the man, as well as the crowd that had gathered, we'll get back to that, appeared odd, even cowed by his diplomat's uniform. So, okay. Henry said, at last, I found a way to utilize my gold lace. So I'm going to need some. Yeah. Okay. So here's the here's the facts coming. Here's the scene. Yeah. He's in St. Petersburg and there's a man beating a donkey and the crowd has gathered to enjoy the show of the man beating the donkey. And they're like, give it to him harder. Yeah. Hurt that chained animal. Beat him. Hurt him. And then a guy walks up. Excuse me. In a diplomatic uniform and says, stop. But everyone goes, okay. Okay. We wait for another fight. I'll wait for another donkey. Stop. This man has some sort of uniform on. And so he's like, holy shit. I found my calling. Because for once in his life, somebody gave a fuck for the first time ever. Somebody was actually like, oh, cool. I'm listening. So after everything he'd barely tried in life, he realized that he could help animals because he was dressed nice. I mean, that's not a calling. Henry soon returned to New York. My calling is to wear a suit that people don't recognize and be nice to animals. That happened once. That's my job. Don't tell Lincoln. I'm the donkey stopper. Unhand that donkey. Henry soon returned to New York where he began walking the streets and intervening on behalf of animals whose treatment he judged cruel. Oh boy. He's the boy. Do not let him know about rat fights. So with no need to earn a living, he patrolled the streets daily, accosting coachmen driving over burdened horses and braiding farmers, shepherding cows in need of milking. Wow. They must have just been like, we hate this fucker. Holy shit is this guy the worst. Milk that cow. Look, I have lace on. Milk him. Milk the cow. Don't you see how I'm dressed? You there, water your horse's mouth immediately. Rich man hairs, stop beating your horse. It is I, super animal lover. So he's living the dream. Yeah. I mean, he's just living it. He just walked around like this is awesome. Judging everything. So close to bat. Pet that cat. As close to Batman as you've ever heard in real life. Yeah. So meanwhile, Burns moved south of Five Points to the fourth ward, which was somehow worse. Oh, good. He found a nice place to settle. For at least 25 years, the 20th century popular historian Herbert Ashby wrote, the neighborhood's main commercial thoroughfare was probably the scene of more violent crime than any other street on the continent. Wow. Burns took up residence there occupying a three story. I live here. I shall reside here. Burns took up residence there occupying a three story frame house marked 273. Above the door, he hung a large gilded shingle that read Sportsman Hall by Kit Burns. Oh, well, I think I like where we're headed. So now, so he basically like found cheap property, got involved, and now he's and now I think he's opening some sort of fight club. Well, I mean, it's like today we have a sports bar. Yeah. It's like that. Right. But I'm going to guess. Sports are different then. Yeah. And there's no TV. So sports aren't there. What do you do? I think people beat the fuck out of each other. Get the rats. Sportsman Hall was divided into two main rooms. In the first was a bar above which hung the stuffed remains of two of Burns favorite dogs. One was Jack, a black and tan who'd once dispatched 100 rats in under seven minutes. Classic Jack. Oh, fucking Jackie. He can really murder rats. Oh, shit. I'd never seen anything like it. It was natural with him. Just chomp, chomp, chomp, chomp, chomp. His companion, Hunky, had been a dog fighting champion mortally wounded in his last victory. He won but died. Jesus. The walls were covered in pictures of bare knuckle boxers. The bar served homemade liquor. Yum. That's good. I guess I'll have another one. Oh, God. Burns, his wife and their frail daughter, Kitty, lived above the bar. Though frail, Kitty was quick to anger and carried a wooden club she was very skilled with. Jesus. So that's all I found out about that. But it sounds like she would just get mad and hit people with a club. For all the upside this time has with names, there really is just this erratic downside where anyone can do whatever the fuck they want. But the names. From the street, one could smell the odor of dog. Oh, man. Is there a dog fight place in here? Oh, smells like fun. Hey, you guys smell dog? I smell dog. That's the opposite of what dogs do. They're like, I smell human. I smell dog on you. We're like, I smell dog. At the rear of the room was a narrow passage that led to the amphitheater. The narrow passage was made to frustrate police engaging in raids. In the amphitheater, wooden box seats fronted an octagonal dirt floor arena enclosed by three foot high wooden walls nine feet wide. Four gas jets lit the place. It's like the thunder dome. Yeah, it really is. Yeah, it's Mad Max. Exactly. Yeah, totally. Behind the box seats and circling the ring, benches rose on risers to the ceiling. A Tribune reporter estimated that the room could hold 250 decent people and 400 indecent ones. Oh, okay. So no fire codes. I take it. No fire codes. So is that because they're basically saying like people who like smoke people who like space versus people who don't mind having their sweaty probably Yeah, there's covered bodies standing next to each other. They're saying like a normal decent person would not want to be would not want to be in a have like a person rubbing up against them. But a dirty filthy person is like, yeah, put your face on my neck. I got 150 friends. I'm looking to get inside. You mind if we turn this party indecent? Come on down. It's indecent. Not come on. It's all right. You don't need to leave room for the Holy Ghost. Rub your neighbor. Let's go. Dogs were chained beneath seats where the bones of rats had been swept. Sure. Sounds like a nice place. Sure. It's a nice place. I like what I hear. Until its death. You're going to love this. I'm excited. This is when we go full dollop. Oh, boy. Until its death in 1868, Burns reserved one box for his black bear, which he would pit against any contestant of its weight. Oh, jeez. So. Unwilling. I mean, of course. So you could fight the bear if you were as big as the bear. I mean, he wasn't going to be like, you can fight the bear. You're 100 pounds. He wouldn't let Kitty with the cane fight the bear. Right. The gentleman to fight the bear had to be bear-sized. Reasonable? He's a reasonable man. I love that there's rules for bear fighting. Sorry, mate. You're just not hot enough to fight the bear. Maybe next time. Keep working out. Come back when you're taller. Come back when you're a bit taller and bear-sized. Sometimes there were boxing matches, but more often, there were three basic shows. For 25 cents, you can see a rat killed by a weasel. There's a better package than that? In. Get that weasel. Here's my quarter. The other two were rat killing by dog and dog fighting. Been there, done that. Get that weasel out here. Relatively slow and bloodless, rat and weasel bouts often served as preliminary events. A bit of an amuse-bouche. Regulars thought them tame best suited to women and children. Oh, God. What? A weasel murdering a rat's like, that's for you, boy. That's rated G. That's for the kids. Now, this next one's PG. Coming up, we got R. You're going to love this, Bobby. They're going to send a weasel listener. He's going to kill those rats. Now, when you're a little bit older, I'll let you watch a dog kill 180 of them in 10 minutes. Just wait your turn. You and mom head home now. Daddy's going to watch some more graphic violence. Daddy, when can I watch the dogs kill the rats? When you're 11 and old enough to drink, boy. Attendee's occasionally initially contests between man and rat. Oh, what the fuck? Wait. Which required the human participant to snatch rodents by hand and sever their heads with his teeth. Ugh. What the fuck? Which usually results in scratches and bites to the face. Of course, the rats know the fucking score. Hey, what's up? I'm Bobby. I'm a boy. What are you checking Marty pick up the rat and fucking bite him bite his head off oh? Well, they're scratching a club my god My god, I'll tell you I'd be a weasel rat guy I'd be like I'm fine with the reason wet rat then I go home how drunk you have to be oh you have to be so How fucking drunk you have to be as drunk as they were daily to accept the dare that's right I'm ready bring on the rats. Yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Wake up in the morning. Oh fuck me. I did the rats again. I'm a I have got to start drinking so much I keep fucking biting the rats heads off fuck. I'm missing an eye. I've got a scratch mustache These goddamn rats Burns did not like the practice of men fighting rats and ejected men who did it So he had boundaries he did but he's always that not just a rule people are just right I there's a pocket of people like quick. He's got his back turned eat as many rats as you can Larry Larry foot bar In a typical evening Sportsman's Hall would go through a hundred rats I Okay, you've you've lulled me into where that's a normal thing to hear Rats were difficult to get gray warf rats were valued for their large size and ferocity Ferocity burns paid 12 cents a rat to his in-house catcher whose methods he refused to reveal I'm not telling you how he catches the fucking rats Who are you to ask he has his system that's his business. He's a router. Oh I asked a chef. Yeah, how he makes his pie. Look, I just enjoyed a pie I don't ask for the recipe that's insulting don't ask how we rotman brings me rats Rats entered but it has to do with chocolate That's it it burns octagon 50 at a time Screaming and clamoring in a wire cage. They were extracted for slaughter using specialized tongs one attendee Offered the following description of a ratting event They galloped about the walls in different directions meeting and crowding into a file in one of the corners where they tried Infectually to scale the top of the pit then they would separate again and run frightened about the floor Trying every crevice crevice and corner one or two ran up the trousers and legs of the cage holder Once he composedly and carelessly shook them again It's like World War Z. It is They're just like we're creating like a human ladder. It's not working Terror Burns felt dogs were made for this He must this is why God made dogs He must know by the feel when he bites him that he's done the business for him Yeah, so he felt that that's what dogs were for He was wrong beneath the first floor was a basement containing wooden stalls enough for some 40 dogs Dreary and dimly lit its truck burns as a fine place for a dog Of course his choice specimens However, including the prized white-legged black and tan Bulldog Belcher Lived with his family in comfortable second-room floors and enjoyed burn said better cuisine than he did He's not even rats. Yeah, but what is he he's like I'm eating steak. He's having Kobe beef To condition his pack burns employed a system not dissimilar from modern-day spin classes Each dog was placed atop a large round table with a rotating top Which for traction had been upholstered in wool with the animal chained in place that a trainer incited other dogs to bark and growl and Furion the trainee so that he would run forward and pursuit their by creating a feedback loop of aggression and a treadmill Wow, yeah The treadmill the treadmill crazy fucking awesome. Yeah As terrible as burns dogfighting was nowhere in historical account of burns sportsman hall Are there descriptions of the sorts of brutalities associated with dogfighting of today? While reporters always tried to depict sportsman Hall sportsman's Hall is terrible burns never beat starved or tortured his dogs Journalists often reported his affection for them and then he was deeply wounded by their loss We stuffed some so he doesn't have like a like a rape post like now. Yeah. No, he's not. Yeah He's there. He's just twisted. He's just he just think he's a little fistic. Yeah, they're fighting decent fight. Yeah His long semi-obsessive associated with pride Prize fighting seems to suggest that he regarded boxers and other fighters in much the same light as he did his animals They eat better than I do they will fight burns said for tis their nature to So he thought dogs were like the same as a fucking boxer. Yeah So that makes a little bit of sense a little bit more sense the bear still a red flag The bear still a big red flag. So the rats doesn't really fit in the rats. Yeah. Well, why no rat bear fight? Yeah, what why no rat bear fight? Oh my god. Come on down for the rats bear fight Well, it took a while, but we finally found the championship boat Have you ever seen a rat take down a bear? Will 500 rats dressed in a trench coat with a hat be able to fight a bear? Come on down tonight Commercial advertiser which was a I think a newspaper compared radders and prize fighters to the heathen Chinese and the heathen Hindu Those are good time for newspapers That's some real good report right there And burns came to expect a condescending eye from visiting journalists So for what he was once praised and can spit considered a respected voice of he was now scorned So the tide is turning a little bit. Uh-huh. The worm is turned. Sure. This was mostly because of Henry Berg Who was whipping up an anti animal cruelty frenzy? Here we go He lobbied for passage of anti animal cruelty legislation which was unknown before 1865 and gave sanctimonious street corner lectures So he's one of those dudes in New York. I mean these sits on a street corner and just fucking yells about something It's like who do you root for? I know our hero Well right now my hero is the dogfighter because he's a man See I have a little hard. It's hard. I I mean well well The the hall is the funniest place I've heard of In the craziest place you do have to have your heart goes out a little bit to the guy at the time whenever it's like It's like the people who were like white people who were helping slaves in the Underground Railroad You're like you're ahead of your time a little bit So this guy is seeing that this is the bearer fine. This is not good But he's also a little pansy. He's just a little rich asshole Excuse me. Excuse me you there let that bird go Look at my jacket. Look at it. It's different from your jacket That's better A powerful New York Reverend introduced Berg to a network of influential reformers and helped him develop a strategy Then his wife Katherine helped recruit women reformers many of the veterans of the abolitionist movement The Senate the Sanitary Commission temperance and other reform movements I don't know what the Sanitary Commission is. Well, they're probably people who are like blood can't be on walls Quit shitting on doorsteps. Yeah, have you seen your basement? It's a train wreck It's a health code violation Energetic women were soon the shock troops of the anti-cruelty movement Under the terms of new anti-cruelty laws he and other ASPC officers were deputized to enforce the anti-cruelty laws on the street So he basically I think I let this out So he created the ASPCA So he came back to New York started screaming people on the street and then was like this needs to be organized and creed I'll write a play about it and someone's like man On a street on New York Street corner on April 22nd 1866 the day the law was passed Henny Berg gathered his courage and approached a cart driver unmercifully beating on his exhausted horse Which I don't understand like the horse is tired. So you're like quit being tired quit hiding your energy My friend you can't do that anymore astonished the driver explained Can't beat my horse the devil has come And resumed Berg added you are not aware probably that you are breaking the law but I have the new statute in my pocket And the horse is yours only to treat kindly mouth agape the driver yelled go to hell you're mad He was then arrested. Oh my god. That's crazy. Henry also worked to halt the practice of feeding dairy cattle alcoholic mash Why what about that is a problem? So I had to look this up Cows drunk though, but I had to look this up mashing is a process in which malted grains are used to convert starches into fermented sugars The mash is the boiled grain from which brewers derive sugary liquid So they're giving it to cows and he was upset by this even though it's not alcohol It's just creating a sugary fermented right some some breweries today send their mash to cows Farmers so he was mad about something. Yeah, cuz he was like you can't feed a match. Yeah, and they know they like it and it's fine No, have you read the law? Sorry, I heard you were feeding them rats. Sorry my mistake He also made an ambulance for horses I'm just gonna let I'm just gonna let that sit Well, he's a horse ambulance, huh? I mean back then I've been shot. Sorry. We're just horses. Okay, so it's 1866 Yeah to have a horse ambulance. It has to be pulled by horses. Oh god How else could you have a horse ambulance? Fair fair Rats, I don't know A horse ambulance He had He bought a crane to lift horses out of excavations which were apparently which is apparently a common problem in the city Was putting them in falling into holes horses falling into holes But then they used to let them die because they couldn't get them out Yeah, yeah, hey wait what So this guy came along was like why don't we get the horses out of the holes How about we fill the holes? No, we have a machine to get the horses out of the holes Instead of just letting them die What kind of horses are these? Ah fuck my fucking horse fell in the hole Horses nowadays are only trained to jump over they would never see a hole and be like what's down there They just fall in and then they'd be like fuck I gotta get a new horse My horse fell in that hole last week and the horses just keep falling in these holes I'll tell ya I don't know why we have the holes I don't know what they are but if someone could invent a machine to get the horses out of there Man top dollar Just sound fucking snowy that would be Just walking down the street oh god another horse hole Jesus Christ Holy fuck me Cover your nose horse hole Noses cover them Hey should we figure out a way to get them out of there Nooo Decomposing is the way to get them out of there What do you like animals? When he was upset about some If elected I will end the horse holes Boo Come on now people we need to get rid of these holes We've always had horse holes They're smelly and not necessary Fuck you and your change That's change Now I'm running on the campaign of hope we can get horses out of these holes Nooo Oh damn That's where they fucking belong if they fall That's why god made the holes That literally is like the thinking you're like okay If you don't want them there then why did god make them You're like oh fucking shit I can't I have no argument against that I'm reversing my argument I'm pro horse holes We need them When he was upset about someone being cruel to an animal he started whipping out a cane and attacking people Amazing He was not afraid of a fight The press loved his confrontations and Henry's popularity grew While some newspapers labeled him as Berg the great meddler Wow As a compliment Okay yeah You're a terrific meddler I can see it Others did not enjoy his efforts and called him an ass that should have his ears cropped So those are two different ways to come The insult game was not strong Except Kit Burns he could bring it Yeah he could bring it yeah You're an ass that needs its ears cropped Oh so I put this later but in 1866 Berg created an organization called the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Now known as the ACPCA In the lobby stood a stuffed Newfoundland So Not so different after all Right They're both They love their animals They do they love their animals and they leave them stuffed around places Yeah Hey gentlemen Sure Maybe I am like you Maybe you guys can just sit down and talk about something that's not cruelty for a little while See what makes you tick In December of that year Berg got police to raid Sportsman's Hall And Burns was arrested in violation of animal cruelty laws In a thousand and fifty counts of cruelty to animals And also of making horse holes One for each rat Yeah for rats But the laws had not been properly established as far as punishment goes so Burns was set free Like they had decided that it was against the law but they hadn't decided what would happen So they were like okay so I guess you were punished They had Congress All right get in the jail how long am I serving I think you're free to go We should have written Totally We should have written that long We should have written farther after the party Next time we will Next time we will Live you learn It's just like the horse holes Things got even weirder in the fall of 1868 Not possible When Reverend A.C. Arnold prevailed on several saloon owners on Water Street to commit their properties to the purpose of daily prayer meetings Wow The Water Street revival as it was known inspired frenzied press coverage and spectators from all over the city Eager to glimpse the underworld at prayer Wow The heathens were converting Jesus that's crazy So everyone was like this is amazing so they were all suddenly were all coming down to Burns Street And being like look at this and people are praying and it's like overnight it's topsy turvy He's now more of a sore thumb than ever Yeah now everything's just flipped and it's all fucked Burns thought it was all bullshit Of course Why I think it's nothing but robbery I tell you that's all it is he said of another saloon owners reformation Them ministers and missioners are all in with Alan it's as clear as a fraud as ever was Conversion be damned I knew him 17 years I'm bad and he's a worse one Oof Yeah I hear him So this went on for a little while and then when Alan the other saloon owner went on a drinking binge Burns was vindicated Yes Turns out Jesus called me to He came down from the clouds and he said Alan boy drink yourself fucking patsy piss your pants drunk As I did That's why I'm laying in the street And he gave me a tablet that said I'll such but I got so shit faced I done dropped it and smashed it We believe you Okay Okay Turns out the saloon owners were collecting fees for the use of their space so they were Not too holy Yeah they were just charging guys to go out there and pray Oh you want to pray? Yeah sure there you go We're all about God that'll just be a quarter But the damage was done Burns business had been reduced by all the revivalists and slumming Gawkers would come to watch the filthy people pray So he rented his property too For several hours a day the dog and rat pit Decorated with the remnant blood and bones became a pulpit I mean That's what it is I mean I guess you're into Jesus if you're in there during the pregant You're probably maybe you could like it a little bit I mean fuck Yeah Smells like rat 1868 the evening telegram reported Henny Berg and his animal cruelty campaign had eliminated all dog and rat fighting in the city Cruelty to animals was becoming a thing of the past except For weasel and rat Which by the way is a great cartoon on Nickelodeon Weasel and rat Except Sportsman's Hall The last holdout Wow Because of the way the hall was set up it was too difficult for Burns to catch Burns in the act So in 1968 Henry Berg organized an aerial raid What? He sent a police officer crashing through the building skylight Organization A rat's hole The first couple of what's my job? You jump through the ceiling And then we're gonna go in It's quite a drop You're gonna land right in the rat pit Yes it is quite a drop and you will land on rats And when you land you say you're under arrest You know what and if you land in a horse hole that'll actually be good That's gonna be nice cushion Also if you do land on a rat we have to arrest you Yes if you hurt a rat we'll have to arrest you Obviously you'll go to jail for no minutes So be careful That's how this works Sends a police officer crashing through the building skylight It works Burns was caught in the act and this time fined $800 Which for back there that's a fucking serious That's a serious $200,000 When a Tribune reporter visited Sportsman's Hall in September he found a very sad Burns He described Burns as generally out of sorts, afflicted with the blues Medically speaking And the gout Ugh But I like that he's like he's really sad and down Yeah Plus He can't walk Plus his legs are bloated Well I mean I'd say the worst thing he's got is the blues And the second worst would be the thorns that are penetrating the skin of his feet So six on this hand Burns made an offer to Berg through the reporter I want Mr. Berg to come down here and give a lecture on dog fighting and ratting Burns said If rats is cruelty I'm cruel But I don't think rats is cruelty Tell Berg I'll blow the pit to hell if he'll come down and show me I'm wrong Well well well But He still thought Berg was crazy Berg thought animals should be protected not because he liked them but because it was moral Mr. Berg calls a rat an animal Now everyone of any sense knows that a rat is a vermin Berg takes up for the rat and won't let us kill rats because he thinks they're animals Wouldn't he kill a rat if he found one in his cupboard? Of course he would Fair Told reasonable arguments Fair point Reasonable arguments Yeah He probably wouldn't bite its head off when killing it though Well I mean look You don't know that though I don't It was the way they did Who knows what your gut reaction was when you saw a rat back in those days It might have been to eat it I mean yeah Yep Berg's offer ran as an open letter in the Herald Berg ignored Burns' invitation to come to Water Street Instead he pushed police to conduct further raids Burns was being beaten by a thousand cuts In December 1869 Burns' favorite dog Belcher was killed in a dog fight at Sportsman's Hall Burns attributed the loss partially to the revivalists on his premises Of course He was never exactly himself after the prayer meetings It wasn't so much the praying as the singing that took hold of him You know the talking will hurt you but the singing will kill you I've always said that He was a good dog to have the fucking singing started singing Dejected, grief burdened, and financially hobbled Burns closed Sportsman's Hall And physically hobbled He rented the building for a term of three years to the Reverend W.H. Boole Who opened in its place the Water Street Mission and Home for Women A known supporter of the poor Burns likely considered the home a good deal more useful than prayer meetings Alright But Burns was not done Oh boy Another saloon popped up called the Band Box Oh dear There Burns began holding ratting events again On November 21st 1870 he held a huge event Like I assume like a super rat bowl Yeah like Like a crazy Burning rap Rat cella A flyer announced the event 300 rats will be given away free of charge for gentlemen to try their dogs with Come on come all There will be a good night's sport and no humbug No humbug No humbug Berg Mr. Berg Mr. Berg I'm looking in your direction At approximately 8 o'clock that evening Henry Berg crept into the band box trailed by police officers He wore a long coat beneath which he concealed a glowing lantern That could have gone wrong That could have gone horribly wrong Oh boy There goes Berg Yep As he entered 50 or 60 dead rats lay piled with one terrier still at it Cheered on by some four or five dozen spectators That's really not a lot It's not It's kind of like It's gotten so sad The big event Yeah We used to sell out stadiums It's like Motley Crue Yeah What we're playing the hard rock? Alright let's do this Arby's commercial Money's money right? 39 people were arrested including Kit Burns Berg confiscated a cage of live rats Which he then dropped into the East River So that's That's a really weird twist That's After all this he's like Now that'll teach you You have to respect animals He Back to freedom There you go Hey Henry Yes I think you should have taken him out of the cage No I think that helps him swim If I remember right Yeah I don't think they could swim without it You also probably should have just left him on the docks or something Next time Okay I won't throw them in the river Okay We'll just put them in a horse hole call it a night We'll have the weasel fight them Burns made bail But he was he had caught cold in his holding cell And the illness overcame him swiftly And turned into what might have been Pneumonia or diphtheria As preparations for his trial moved forward Burns retreated to his bedroom At 388 Water Street Above Above his new saloon He became feverish and weak Developed hallucinatory clairvoyant visions In the hours before his death Burns rose from his bed and crossed the room Thinking he would check one last time on his dogs Bye! He said I'll check the old bed box once more Lacking the strength He fell back onto his pillow His agony and contortions during the last few hours of existence were fearful The Jackson Citizen Patrol wrote The Evening Post said that at the age of 39 He had the appearance of a man of 60 British Prize fighting champion James Mace visited his bedside They talked of Mace's planned bout with the Irish-American heavyweight Joe Coburn Burns told Mace that he did not mind to die But that he hated to leave his wife and his dog Mustard Oh Mustard You know I don't mind if I leave my wife But I don't think Mustard will be the same Oh Christ what about old Mustard Sweet Mustard You know I called it Mustard because of how he tastes Go ahead and lick him He tasted me taste just like Dijon Burns turned on Mace's offer of a drink Like Yeah Hey you want a pop? I'm dying So yeah So whiskey No I don't I'm literally going to die tomorrow Right I'm just going to pour this in your mouth Blaglur Burns began to shiver and his wife came to his side One of Burns' dogs which kept him company in his room began to bark Lay still snoozer he said That's the wrong name for that dog I'm going on a long journey he told Mace Goodbye Jim I really isn't it It is kind of nice when someone dies With like Alright Well I'm out of here Okay goodbye Jim Okay goodbye Jim then yeah Bye Is there anything else I had to do before I died I feel like I've forgotten something Petty the door Close the garage Turn off the lights Set the dogs Made the potatoes stew Right don't you think it's time to doi Oh I forgot to kill the rat Fuck doi Oh no I killed 15,000 rats That's alright I committed a rat genocide I'll be fine He died December 19th 1870 The hero of the abandoned classes was dead They took Kit Burns to Calvary Cemetery three days before Christmas In a hearse drawn by six white horses How the hell did you get to 6,000 rats The procession was packed and festive enough that it formed a parade I mean that's just not something you see Hey there's a bunch of us let's just Was this planned No just kind of an on the fly parade You know how they are Why is there a float You know parade broke out I don't even know what to tell ya We just made it it was crazy In a band Look you're as surprised as we are but get on board Why is the mayor here It's a parade silly An unscheduled impromptu organic parade Burns lay in a coffin dressed in garb more sedate than the bright church Gold chains and pantaloons striped with his gang colors I mean pantaloons striped with his gang colors It was the greatest There was a time when you were like Don't fuck with him look at those pants What a shit look at his red pantaloons Look at his tight weird red pants It was said that those assembled stared at Burns as if he were a spiritual medium A religious leader a prophet or a saint In his 39 years he had survived four bullet wounds A knife to the neck taken during a brawl at Dan Kerrigan's Cherry Street bar In the winter of 1869 a year before his death complications from a rat bite had placed him in a precarious near terminal condition Those were just the occupational hazards for Burns A saloon keeper by trade who was super into rat fights That's ratting That is ratting That's ratting for ya You knew the deal You might die from a rat bite Back then they had tattoos that said rat life A rat over their belly It says ticklish Yup His lifetime had seen the slaughter of thousands of rats He went to heaven and there were just like all these rats like Well well well well Hello Kit Been a while huh How you been Riding on horses Shit's about to get weird You're gonna fight a weasel for a quarter asshole How does that sound Henry Berg the founder of the ASPCA boasted I drove him out of New York and into his grave Cool brag Finally New York City was rid of dog and rat fights Something I didn't think I'd hear before I came here today Henry's anti-cruelty society spread across the country One by one other states adopted laws modeled on those Berg wrote for New York By 1886 36 states had adopted anti-animal cruelty laws But Henry did not just go on to rescue animals At the time children were considered the chattel of their parents or guardians With no rights of their own and no protections from assault or abuse Berg and an ASPCA lawyer rescued a girl who was being horribly abused by her foster mother Because there were no laws Because there were no laws to protect children in 1874 They argued that the child was an animal entitled to protection under animal cruelty laws Oh my god that's where we were They had to be like That's how fucked up America is Oh my god She's an animal And that's a good thing And that's a good thing Because if she was just a kid What I just said is a compliment You could kick her vagina into space You could drown her all you wanted You could drown her like saved rats If she was not an animal you could just hit her in the crowbar with Unfortunately she's basically a donkey so leave her be It'll be faster if we just argue that children are animals Trust me I know these people Trust me Look out for that horse hole The foster mother was convicted and sentenced to a year in jail The incident spurred a new round of New York legislation And a new organization, New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children Also headed by Berg Newspapers called this new organization preposterous Under headlines like Legislation running mad and leave our children alone Leave our children alone So we can beat the fuck out of them Okay I gave you the little squirrel saving society But if I want to kill my fucking kid I get to kill my kid You're telling me that my child can't fight that bear? Come on Come on now Your kid can't fight that bear because we're protecting the bear Yeah right that's right So things are fine Similar society spread to other states starting in Massachusetts long before Berg's funeral His city and nation claimed him as a hero It may almost be said of Henry Berg that he has invented a new type of goodness Scribner's magazine proclaimed in 1879 Berg died on March 12th 1888 of bronchitis and an enlarged heart You know what I always said his heart was a little too big A little too big A little too big for him A little too big So animals save before children Normal, normal order Totally normal Normal order So it seems like life was pretty good back then Things were fine If you could keep your horse out of a fucking crater you're going to be A-OK I just want to meet the guy who got drunk and fought the rats Oh my god Just watching your friend Yeah that would be like your friend like getting like being like taking his shirt off on a stage in a bar at that You'd be like he's so fucking pissed right now Look at how many rats he's eating Christ he's not driving a chariot is he? Fuck it hey Oh fuck are you going to eat the rats again tonight? I'm starving let me eat them You're not supposed to eat them Paddy Look a couple went down it's an occupational hazard Oh fuck me I got the plague Oh boy I'm dying from eating rat heads You know the doctor thinks it might have been all the rat brain Have you done anything odd lately because of the fever have you been around dogs or any sick people? You know the only thing I did do was I ate 150 rat heads to gamble But other than that I've been running I'm good I'm drinking a lot more like you said I'm drinking way more I'm just not going to give you any medicine and let you die Okay alright good check up I'll see you doc you're the best B-E-S-D best Well I think Berg is a hero Sports were different No Berg is the hero in this but he started out such a little It's so crazy because I am attracted to the idea of Kit Burns Even though what he did is awful he's a man right? Well if you think about it I think maybe you just do what I do which is like you're like who would you find more like in a movie Oh you'd be like I want to watch that movie Every fucking day of the week You don't want to watch the movie the guy is like good will prevail You want to watch the guy is like shut that door now We're going to kill rats We're going to have what we call a rat off We're going to have a rat spinning contest where you try to knock out your opponent by spitting rats at him Okay it's going to be normal Don't look at the bear look over here Don't look at the bear You're not old enough to look at the bear You must be this tall to fight the bear So the movie is Kit Burns Yes And then Berg is the villain but he's not the villain No but he's the movie villain But he is the villain Because he's annoying He fucking Stop It's annoying The fun parts of the story are Kit Burns Yes And then Berg comes in and ruins the fun It's like the straight man right The straight man you need But right now we would just want to watch this guy go ape shit Yeah Rat shit Well another normal chapter in American history Fuck America is so fucked up Thanks for listening Hi everybody this is Gareth Reynolds from the Dala Podcast This is the show you're listening to I wanted to give you some of my stand updates coming up July 22nd through the 25th I'll be at Comedy on State in Madison, Wisconsin August 5th I'll be in Phoenix, Arizona at CB Live Then I'll be at the Rally Improv August 6th through the 8th And I'll be at Hyenas in Dallas, Texas August 19th Join me there or join me the next night August 20th at the State Theater in Austin or Texas If that doesn't work for you Join me August 21st at the Rec Room in Houston, Texas And then I'll be at the Spokane Comedy Club in Spokane, Washington August 26th The following night I'll be at the Tacoma Comedy Club August 27th Go to GarethReynolds.com to get tickets for all those dates I love you