 We're just talking about it Gary Gary apparently doesn't know anything Yeah, no matter what subject I throw at him. He's like I haven't heard of that, but you're not a moron No, but no there. Yeah, you're a smart guy Yeah, but you've just decided maybe to put all your energy into football or a lot of it goes the football I have I'm at peace you are a piece of the piece. Okay. Yes, that's terrific. It's fun to learn He's fun Okay The year November 7th 1974 lovely that was when Bernard gets was born, okay He's born in Queens, New York City Father was a German immigrant who ran a book binding business and a dairy farm in upstate, New York That's all right books and cows a lot of people get into that Yep, well, it's so easy to fall into the cow game after you get into binding It really is they call it doing the double up at farmland. It's the same thing. Yeah, for sure. Yeah So that's where he was raised up there in upstate, New York. His mother was also a German immigrant. So he was raised by two Germans so he was from German German binders and milkers. Yes. Yeah, the stock was sturdy and strong. Sure. Yeah Things went wrong for Bernard when he was 12. Wow. Okay. All right Did you start? We're in. Okay. I did 12 His father was accused and convicted on charges of molesting two 15 year old boys. Oh, yeah I thought you're gonna say binding cattle. No, he went for something else Papa gets Papa gets peeled the verdict. This is what he's already. Oh, sorry Papa get I called it Papa I called him Papa He's not pop because if that I mean I was to make light of Funny molester name. Yes, but Papa gets would be a guy you keep your eye on period Whatever Papa wants Papa gets hey As he's just rubbing his nipple. Hey, what's your name? My name Papa gets hey get the kids in the house No, no, leave my hair Papa gets them. Okay He appealed the verdict and later Plead guilty on a reduced charge of disorderly conduct So I don't know what happened there, but he was convicted of molesting two boys and he peeled it and they're like, alright This is a lawyer. There you go disorderly conduct. Yeah, I got you for public urination better feel good So to cushion Bernard and his sister Bernice from the trauma the dad sent them to a boarding school In Switzerland, what a great solution. I'm just gonna get rid of them So they're not hurt by me. I'll just cut cut ties cut them loose. Yeah So that's where Bernard gets spent his high school years in Switzerland When he returned and entered New York University in 1975 the family had moved to Florida His father did very well. So he's out of jail. Obviously his father did very well developing Medium priced track housing in Florida. So he's responsible for some of that shit. Yeah, sure Bernard graduated with a degree in electrical and nuclear engineering. So not a dummy now. He's not a fucking dummy In order to avoid military duty in Vietnam. He acted like he had a mental illness and it worked What does he have a mental illness? Yeah, true that but that has to be fun regard Like if you're acting like you're crazy. Oh, yeah, I like your crap. I mean, I just murder that game pulling a Ted Nugent. Yeah Yeah Yeah Gets then joined his father's development company and entered into a brief unhappy marriage Lovely they divorced in 1975. So it wasn't a year. Yeah, it wasn't even a year that marriage And she was like, holy fuck Mario Lopez was like that was fast Gets moved to New York City to start his own business. He specialized in chemical engineering He specialized in calibrating sophisticated electronic equipment to precise manufacturing standards. I was gonna guess That would be my guess My dad made books and milked cows I'm a calibrator Machines don't your machines don't hurt you he is often said Okay. Hmm. Well, I disagree with that fucking completely has he not seen the matrix Yeah, I mean or heard about the escalator kid and his shoelaces Terminator. Yeah, okay You're you're being more real. Okay, sorry Sorry the tripods from the sky has he not read about those He ran the business out of his own apartment where he stored the equipment Acquired from suppliers all over the city in order to bid on bargains at auctions and sales Gets often carried several thousand dollars in cash with him interesting. Mm-hmm Interesting in 1977 he moved to a one bedroom apartment in Greenwich Village near 14th Street for teen street at that time was a bit Of a mess a lot of crime and whatnot. He launched a one-man crusade to clean up the street Bestering pestering city agencies to do something about the litter the junkies and the homeless that is sort of how the ASPCA started Okay, we don't yeah, we don't know. Yeah kind of is like the ASPCA in a way. Well, we'll get to it All right now in 1981 Crime rates were peaking in New York City The city had a reported crime rate over 70% higher than the rest of the United States The subway became a symbol of crime gone wild in an opinion poll of New York City residents more than half said crime was the worst Thing about living in the city 25% they said they are a family member had been a victim of a crime. So it's a fucking nightmare. Yeah Back then subways were covered in graffiti inhabited by muggers junkies panhandlers And the homeless there were 15,000 felonies a year on average in the subway. Wow, that's fucking that's just felonies That doesn't even include the misdemeanors. Yeah 15 that like 15,000 murders really really bad Really horrible crimes happened Jesus Out of every four passengers Oh one out of every four passengers Abandoned using the subway between 1965 and 1969 between 1965 and 1982 Wow, so 25% of the people who had been using it before like fuck this walk Track fires and train breakdowns became very common Jesus. Now. This is before the Giuliani years And the streets had basically been taken over by the bad guys You fucking seen the movies like you when you see an old New York City movie and you're like, yeah Holy shit. Look at the subway. Yes, you just be walking on the street a guy be like, hey, where you going Jack? It's insane just walking god damn it. Oh fucking hold on my thing died Sorry, that was our first technical was that our first technical problem that wasn't a dog. Yeah Okay, so but but this is for the Giuliani years like There was an incredible resentment towards the predators who roamed New York looking for people to bully or mug or rape Why what was the what did they have against these predators? They were young crude obnoxious elboring people on the subway making vile statements to women cursing anywhere as loudly as they could and committing crimes and They were too often young black men who incurred the silent wrath of and sparked silent terror in Those who found themselves on the streets that they might be walking down late at night Or who were trapped between stops and subway cars with fear three or four of them waiting to attack Jesus they were hated they were hated and they didn't care they reveled in it in their own neighborhoods They violently oppressed disgusted and embarrassed the black their black neighbors, right? So they were just fucking asshole Yeah, now that's that's assuming that they're black, but they were of course all colors, but there was at that time this Stereotypical black male thing right and in a lot of these cases these guys were really bad news, right? In January 1981 gets was heading home with some electrical equipment Oh boy when he was jumped by three black youths at the Canal Street subway station been there Right to the subway station not the jumping Not the jumping when I had electrical equipment. Oh No Anyway, Bernard was smashed into a plate glass window He suffered torn cartilage in his knee two of the kids got away while a third was actually grabbed by a cop So there's actually a cop there and he actually did his job see this is this is the time when the cops would grab people Yeah, shoot them dead. That was so great when they grab people Crapping was a tactic. I know now would be like oh my taser then gun guys beat the fuck out of him Even gets it be at the window like leave him alone enough already He's dying So Later that year gets applied for a pistol permit Okay, himself a gun. Yeah He cited the fact that he routinely carried large sums of cash But his application was rejected on grounds of insufficient need what I don't know Well, I just think they didn't want people have guns in New York and maybe as you hear this story, okay You know what Dave if there's a thing slow down if there's one thing I should have learned The part of this is about me shutting the fuck up So gets was better I hope it's gets it's Bernie gets it I hope it's not goats It's geo et he hopes it's not goats. I believe it's gets Papa goats is Papa goats No Papa goes Papa Bauer so much worse on a subsequent trip to his family's Florida home He bought a nickel plated lightweight Smith and Wesson 38 caliber revolver It was oddly warm on December 22nd 1984 something's happening on December 22nd 1984 Bernard left his apartment in a blue windbreaker and went into the 14th Street subway station. Good look already Bernard looked at the cars on the number two train. He was mostly looking for an empty one He got on board and took a seat across from the door directly opposite him sat Troy Canty 19 To his right sat Darryl KB 19 and James Ramseur 19 Diagonally crossed from gets sat Barry Allen 18 for young black men. Oh dear Can't he asked gets how he was? Oh dear Fine gets replied that would New York. Those are what's known as murder words, right? Nobody like nobody says how are you doing? Yeah, that's that's when you're about to go. I'm sorry What I mean by how are you doing is I'm gonna murder you Then Canty and Allen got up and moved To their left or no to get his left Canty then said give me five dollars Hey, listen, I'm gonna tell you something I'm gonna give you five dollars Hey, listen straightforward. I like it. Okay, but Why so like why so low? Yeah, okay, but it really tells you about the state of mind, right? The desperation like all right. Hey bitch. Give me a buck 50. Give me a sock Come on man, give me one of them motherfucking shoelaces Let me put your wallet in my pant for a minute to see what it feels like and then I'll give it back I just want to know Um So then Give me five dollars gets rose slowly Partly unzipping his jacket his windbreaker. Dave. He asked Canty what he had said and Canty repeated the statement gets and Gets then said you can have all of it I don't believe he means it gets pulled out the silver colored gun. Yep He assumed a combat stance weird just so great that he yeah He he got into some sort of yeah, I mean What does that even mean hold a gun I mean I picture a combat stance like you get your fists out he dug a trench He put on a helmet put on a helmet got his boots on got his boots on and talked to the platoon then the men were gone Let's go boys Gripping the revolver with both hands. He shot Canty through the center of his body He then turned slightly to his right and shot Alan who had turned to flee In the back he fired again shooting ramzer in the arm and chest then he fired a fourth time at KB Victor Flores 47 was on the trunk car The kids were frightened backing off trying to get away. There was no reason to shoot them They fell one after the other bang bang bang He I guess the guy felt like he had to put bang bang bang in just otherwise you wouldn't know What do they sound like flop flop flop? Honestly, I can't possibly recreate it And the police have a sound guy that's like And the police have a sound guy like a sketch artist he's like I can translate the sounds for you Was it like a poppity pop pop pop? It wasn't a poppity pop. It was more like a Like a slower poppity pop like a bang bang bang He's the best Uh by his own account gets then walked over to KB who was sprawled on the seat perhaps playing possum uh you may You seem to be doing all right get said here's another and then he shot him. Jesus christ Now someone loved dirty hairy movies, right? Yeah, like someone was like I go to the cinema Yeah, because this is dirty hairy ears. Oh, it's a little bit a little bit past dirty hair That's no he still had one going. He's still at deadpool. But so this is like Really close to how big those movies were right? They were the fucking movies then it's a good time Although, uh, I wonder if he did the clunt the clan eastwood voice just you know You know, I don't know how many I don't know how many of your friends I shot five or six. I lost count I can't count I can't count Although flora says gets didn't say a word and that he didn't shoot kb again He didn't shoot the kid a second time. He didn't say anything either. So get gets is like making up the dialogue part Like he he's making uh, I think he's I think he's making up the cool dialogue Oh, oh you look like you're still doing fine. Yeah, right. Yeah. Yeah Yeah, and it's and what did he say you want some more? He said how about a muffin for your other hole? Tell your grandma I love her pies what bang shit that went bad. I gotta write better dialogue All right. I just gotta come up with something snappy There's something for your sausages. Yeah, it's not good Even god damn it about I'll see you on the fourth of july cookout. I got I got the shooting part down What am I doing? Hey, you want to start another fire in your fridge? Oh, fuck me If you were a tropical fish, I'd marry you. What am I doing? Who's putting on a double windbreaker Um Either way a bullet severed kb spine spinal cord paralyzing him from the waist down. He also had brain damage Two women were cowering at the other end of the car. Why I don't know why what about he was just shooting black people Yeah, I mean, I mean let a man have his day. Everything's fine. Yeah Gets walked over and asked them if they were all right. No, that's not good Hey, you two girls doing okay, because there's a crazy killer on the street. Yeah. Yeah Yeah, you're good. Yeah, you okay. There's a nut. I know where there's two tacos for two dollars Never i'm not gonna shoot you. I'm sorry. Never mind. Never mind. I just tried to come up with more phrases What did you guys think of that? Was that cool? I'd like to climb your ladder Let's do the milkshake two straws shit Uh conductor entered the car. Okay, let me just say this Maybe that shit happened in the 80s. Yeah But today if there's a shooting the conductor is running out the other end of the who what conductor is like, all right gentlemen You've seen the conductor what's going on back here. Yeah tickets tickets everyone Tickets, please. It's like in the 80s. They had like a 1930s conductor. Yeah. Yeah Let me just get some more coal up front in the train We're moving along nice now uh bernard Bernard gets told uh told the conductor the med had tried to rip him off the conductor asked if he was a police officer And geth said no They had a brief discussion about gets turning over his revolver and uh geth said no. Yeah, i'm good Yep, i'm gonna keep this little bad boy The train came to a stop before reaching the next station and gets jumped out ran along the darkened tracks And then up the stairs into the street Wow I can't I really can't believe that you could just run around the subway like that And the fucking 80s and 70s were just crazy crazy time plus have you seen um Uh cloverfield no, i've never have you haven't no they run around the subway. They do. Yeah I'd love to do that next time. There's other movies where people run around in some. All right, dave. I get it I'm wrong. Okay. I'm just saying jesus. I mean It feels like you're attacking ghostbusters, too The ghost train hits ernie hudson Can we is that helping point made all righty made Um, it feels like it was a good point. Uh, it is a good point. All right, cool um Gets went home changed his clothes and packed a bag exactly what you do when you've legally defended yourself Yep. Yep, put on a new windbreaker get the backpack stuff. Shake your head. Yep. Shake your head Change your name and never go home again putting your different colored, uh Lenses in your eyes and off you go go have a new pigment Uh, he rented a car and headed for vermont in a motel in bennington. He took a part 38 and dumped it Uh along with his blue windbreaker, which he uh burned so he dumped him in the woods and it's not a firebreaker It's not anymore. It's not no over the next week. The mysterious subway vigilante became a national sensation What was his angle though? Like he just was gonna go like murder defend? uh himself against five people and then Change his life like well, first of all, it was four people but he I don't think he was thinking after that He was just thinking I'm gonna shoot some people if they look at me weird Yeah, and then he did that my life is over right and then he was like, oh I didn't think about the other part Where you got a lot of guilt that comes along with this. No, there's no guilt. Oh boy. He's just running So it becomes a national sensation the police report hundreds of calls praising the government Um, so okay, you're at home and you hear that that a guy has just shot four people on the subway the people that have been Terrorized in the city and so then what you phone the police department to say Hey Uh, he he did a good job. Like who's calling the radio station? You're not calling about your favorite fucking song. It's the cops You're listening to precinct 24 Wnbr number one with four bullets. Give us a call and tell us which criminal you like the best Hey sergeant pepper. I just want to say you guys are doing the greatest work And I hope you let these vigilantes keep killing the man. Shout out to my homies Okay, did you want to report a crime? Oh, um, no shout out to my homies Uh Rumors spread that gets had been threatened with sharpened screwdrivers So they have no idea who he is They just know that a guy went on the subway and shot four people and the rumor was that he'd been threatened with screwdrivers This rumor was published as fact by some newspapers Including the new york times good so they've got a new york times. Yeah, the york times went let's run with it Man in the street interviews revealed blacks and whites enthusiastically supporting the gunman Someone spray painted on east river drive power to the vigilante new york loves you Wow, yeah, what a weird well people were Yeah, it was a time when everyone's just fucking terrified of being killed all the time You know like it was like batman came a really low rent shitty batman. Yeah Batman is like Alfred get my windbreaker And my only gun get my only gun in my windbreaker Alfred Alfred here comes rat man He's just talking to a parrot Alfred get my windbreaker. What? Thank you Alfred. I agree. I do look good New york magazine said that people of all colors rich and poor everyone in new york was thrilled Gets it actually succeeded where no one else had he brought together the people Of new york of all colors and classes they were all happy about what happened the mood in the city was jubilant Wow, they were like let's have a barn dance This is awesome. We finally shot four black guys in the subway Someone finally took a stand against the horrific crime conditions. They've been dealing with for over a decade The action had vindicated the feelings that the people had when they saw the thugs That the apparatus of law enforcement was failing them. They had had it with excuses for rude and violent behavior They couldn't take hearing all the psycho sociological explanations Cleaning switch dirty hairy films were very popular and it seemed the way to handle the situation was to shoot people Vigilante justice was confronted with a clear criminal threat And it should be no crime that's now our national policy which is And that's the police in ferguson A special hotline set up by police to seek information was swamped by calls supporting the vigilante. Hey I just want to shout out to my homies And calling him a hero Hey, is this the uh information line? Just want to let you know that that man's a hero. All right Oh my tip is to let him go Tip line Uh harvard professor james q wilson explained the reaction it may simply indicate that there are no more liberals on the crime and order issue in new york Because they've all been mugged I mean, you know that will make you conservative Uh, the teenagers get had shot had numerous arrests among them The police recovered three screwdrivers from the jackets of two of the victims, but they weren't weapons They were tools of their trade which was robbing video game machines Their trade Well, they had a job. Yeah, it's just that their vocation their their specialty like like if your toilet breaks down Uh-huh, you call a plumber. Yeah, so in this case Um, yeah, i'm ready for this next part if you need your quarters empty Oh really if your machine is too full of quarters, uh-huh you call Call four and are you calling them? Yeah, okay You don't call right you wait for or do you just not wait for and find out about okay? You in the morning you come in and okay all your machines are empty and you lose your business It's not it's sort of the same thing as calling a plumber. Let's move on. It's called an analogy It doesn't feel like it is Well, they're not all good. That's true. That's that's fair They're evolving some are evolving Uh kanty's brother free bus Whoa, this is kanty's brother free basing cocaine while talking to a new york post reporter said that troy was high at the time of the shooting, okay Yeah, you start I have some things too. I I just want to picture the guy who's being interviewed. Yeah by a reporter. Yeah, and It doesn't want to take the time off from smoking crack Well at that time it was kind of like you know like you'd be like do you mind if I smoke in here? They're probably like no, and he's like I'm sorry. What are you smoking? It's a crack. Oh, just crack just crack anyway my brother He was definitely like you could never get a shit together. I always felt bad for him. You know I talked to him sure You are turning into the devil, but I'll finish Um People are great yeah Reporters are like cool with anything they're like give me the feed yeah, let me have it give me the story So get has been driving around new new england for several days registering at motels under various names and paying in cash A week after the shooting he called his neighbor Myra friedman and asked her for help and told her the story He explained what he had done and how he felt Okay Naturally how did he feel okay? But wait we have this we have this what he said exactly because she recorded the conversation Oh sweet, so he called the person who? Like who who is ready to record like are you in the cia like who is like? Always ready to like you can't you just don't have that shit laying around like you grab it and you're a crazy person Yeah, crazy person so it's a crazy person calling a crazy person Myra in a situation like this your mind you're in a combat situation Your mind is functioning you're not thinking in a normal way your memory isn't even working normally You're so hyped up your vision actually changes your field of view changes your capability changes what you're capable of changes You're under adrenaline a drug called adrenaline and you respond very quickly and you think very quickly That's all you think you think you analyze and you act and in any situation You just have to think more quickly than your opposition. That's it. You know speed is very important I'm getting another call. Can you hold on? One second, I'll be right back do it quick speeds important. Yeah. Yeah, I get you. I'll be right really fast. Okay, okay If you corner a rat and you're about to butcher it, okay The way I responded was viciously and savagely just like a rat Those guys i'm almost sure are vicious savage people. I know in my heart. I was a murderer. I just snapped I know in my heart. I was a murderer. Yeah, I just snapped wow I mean imagine knowing knowing in knowing your heart in my deep down inside. I'm a murderer Just it's not if it's when with me it's gonna happen. It's gonna happen I've been close got the itch I got the murders in my got the murder fever. Oh, I got the murder fever baby murder fever Man, it's burning out of me the new ted new janelle the murder fever. Oh my god, please Let it be a couple of days later on new year's eve My new year's resolution to not shoot black yous on subways anymore I'm done I'm done Subways anymore i'm done on new year's eve on what what other day would you do this? He uh a man in a leather Bombardiers jacket walked into the police station in concord new hampshire and said that he was the fugitive wanted for the new york subway shootings and happy new year Now wait can I Okay, I don't that's not him right? Yeah, it's him. Okay, that'll be great if it wasn't Well, I thought because there was so much adulation that a guy could just Like you know, I even get it, but i'm sure a bunch of people were like, yeah No, I did it seriously. I did it. I'd do it again, too The policeman The policeman red gets his miranda warning telling me he did not have to talk if he did not want to but he wanted to big time He'd been watching and reading all that press for nine days and he was like I want in For the next four hours two of which were videotaped. Okay, what? Like what so he babbled for two hours and someone's like reggie you uh, you getting this on tape? No, is that a uh, Video the video you turn on oh, we got that. Yeah. Yeah. No, let's turn that on We got the two years. Let's fire that up. We got the two years. Let's fire that up. Okay. Let's fire it up So you're doing a great job by the way great cop but next he said a lot of crazy stuff, too I hope we get to do more takes. Did you do what? I hope we get more takes I hope we get more takes out of him because he did he said a lot of stuff. We don't do takes you're action Cut Uh So bernard let loose he said he did not think he had done anything wrong But he also added that he acted like a cold-blooded savage He uses savage a lot and and how he likes he likes the word savage a guy who knows that he can murder in his heart is able to Bridge that gap. Okay So I didn't do anything wrong. I just savagely murdered Gentlemen gentlemen pump the brakes Uh get stated that none of the young men have been armed Okay It's it. I mean What you're describing Is cold-blooded murder? You're actually using the term cold-blooded and you're saying they didn't have weapons So what you're saying is you cold bloody murdered them. Yes But you're but you're not guilty. I'm a good guy Let me go look at these dimples Can't stay mad at me I can't yeah Ask what his intentions were when he drew his gun get said my intention was to murder them to hunt to hurt them To make them suffer as much as possible if I had more bullets I would have shot them all again and again my problem is I ran out of bullets That's I mean you need to get a windbreaker with more pockets But how I mean if this this is a confession of murder, yes, all right He added I was gonna Gouge one of the guy's eyes out with my keys afterwards But I stopped when I saw the fear in his eyes because I wanted to get my security deposit back Well, here's the deal. I was gonna I was gonna just keep stabbing his eyeballs. I was gonna start his eye, right? I was gonna take one of the but then I looked at his eyes and he was scared for some fucking reason I don't know why you shoot a guy a couple times and then you pull out your keys to poke him in the eyes And he gets a weird look at his eye and I was like, well, this is a fucking bummer Yeah I want a man looking back at me that i've already shot and i'm about to stab in the eye with a key I want him to look at me with rage. He was not a giving partner in that sense. You know what? I worked very selfish. I've i've gone through this scenario so many times This role play with my therapist and my therapist is always angry. Yeah, not scared I need a new shrink Jesus boohoo. You shot me. I'm scared anyway, i'm a murderer not a fun partner When two new york city detectives arrived to interview him Getz was a dick He was taken out and he was surrounded by a horde of reporters Vultures he sneered What he where did he where was he he was outside of uh jail? Yeah, but when they took him out to take him to the car Okay, so the trans okay. All right, there's all these reporters around and he's like vultures Okay. Wow. Okay. All right irony, but that's funny The manhattan district attorney asked a grand jury to indict getz on four counts of attempted murder four of assault Four of reckless endangerment and one of criminal possession of a weapon In new york, he was arraigned on charges of illegal gun possession and attempted murder bail was set at 50 000 And later reduced to 5000 The why in none of those charges is murder. He didn't kill any of them. Oh None of them died. None of them died. Wow Oh, none of them died. None of them died. Wow But then he's not dirty harry no, he's shitty harry. Yeah, he's he's stinky bernie He's barely bernie On an all-new barely bernie so bel was set at 50 50 000 and then reduced to 5000 because hey New york, he's the vigilante Let him go Hey, take away our zero. You know what i'm saying? Hey taxi in jail Getz was deluged with calls from people who wanted to give him money and support You did a good thing even though we ain't got no proof, but those guys are actually going to attack you. So here's some money Hey, I heard you shot four guys in the subway. I don't know exactly what was going on But here's some cash there'd be a little more money if you had put the key in his eye You put the key in his eye That's an extra 50. This is a hundred dollar bill. Yeah, you know what i'm saying? You get a hundo you get a sweet hundo, huh? Get over here, buddy. What's that behind your ear? It's a hundred dollars for murdering He turned out everyone who offered him money and raised his own bail His case was sent to the grand jury who decided on january 25th that he had been justified in his use of force And declined to indict him on any charges but illegal possession of weapons the d.a Did not allow any of the kids who were shot to testify Hey, uh, you got shot by that guy. Well, nobody needs to hear that capiche You know what i'm talking about you guys that guy shot you that guy who shot you Let's not have you go talkity talkity talk. Look you good. We have the conductor. The case is strong We got those two chicks. Yeah, the two chicks the two chicks. We got them you were right there I don't care. Yeah You don't need to be a part of this rest. Thank you for coming Go away go away Yeah uh So they didn't they didn't pursue charges. They didn't pursue the gun charges And that was it. Um, that was it. They they let him walk What? On march 26 1985 a man called 911 and reported reported a kidnapping He said He said james ramser had been forced into a blue Cadillac by two men with guns at 170 The street and third avenue in the bronx james ramser of the subway. He's one of the guys that got shot. Yeah Yeah, it's interesting, huh, uh don't you toy with me like a cat who just found a mouse that's Detectives went to james ramser's apartment in the bronx james ramser's mother told detectives her son had gone out at 4 pm The detectives began canvassing the building and the neighborhood Ramzer appeared at his apartment at 10 10 pm Ramzer told detectives he had been forced into a Cadillac by two armed men and driven north about five miles to a playground He said the men told him they were going to kill him, but he ran away as they fired After escaping ramster said he walked home about five miles the detectives found inconsistencies in ramzer's accounts When they played back for ramzer a recording of the 911 call he admitted to making the call and fabricating the report He did a horrible horrible job His mom was like he went out at four What? Worst fake kidnapping ever Yeah Worst And the confession of that so fast is always funny I know Yeah, no, I heard that that was me. That's totally mine. It's totally my voice pretending like i'm someone else seeing me get kidnapped Yeah, you got me I lied All right, you guys want to go home or get a sandwich or something? What do we do now? We're gonna hang out Well, we're gonna arrest you. Oh, whoa Whoa, whoa? Whoa, can't a guy get fake kidnapped? I pretend to be kidnapped for an afternoon Called guys coming investigate and then i'm going to jail. Wow. Why don't you do your job? I tax dollars in motion who is gonna solve my fake kidnapping What about the guys who didn't do it? We got a fake detective What about the guys that didn't do it? You're gonna let them walk away them not walk the streets Now gets had basically gotten away with uh murder or shooting not murder and he became Super into his fame Oh boy, he recommended that more civilians be trained to carry guns. He showed up at the funeral of a slain cabbie Which is really nice a slain. Hey, a good cabbie got killed and he's and he shows up at the hey Not me, you know why gun? Yeah. Oh, I guess you know what? I'm not that guy dead couldn't protect himself Bernie's bernie right here. Bernie's a shooter. He's not a debtor. Yep It's pretty weird pretty weird acted himself from two screwdrivers again. It's a weird eulogy, but get i'm getting going Yep. Here we go uh Every other day he seemed to give another exclusive interview, but he was annoying not tv ready And being a preachy loudmouth asshole backfired on him Good plus information was leaking out about what he said in interrogation and during interviews now people were like, oh Okay, shut the fuck up put him in jail Right, so they're hearing everything that happened already fucked up. Well also The color lines that were previous previously blurred with black and white coming together Yeah, now black saw him as a man who basically hunted black kids which okay, there must have been so much like not even propaganda, but just People must I mean that I found strange when you said it that black people as well were like But they yeah, everyone was being terrorized by yeah young black kids, but it still seems I don't know. I just in this it seems like in this day and age that does not happen No, right. You never there's there's a clear racial divide normally on those sort of issues clear But I think that and again, this is this is it wasn't all fucking black kids doing it But that was what was being told and then yeah, and then black people were being Fucked with in their neighborhoods by young black rights. So to them. They're like these guys are fucking it was like the it was like, you know 20 years before there were no gangs and now there were like 4 000 gangs in New York. Like it was just It had just turned into fucking hell. You watch the movie the warriors, right? That's a true story I know about the baseball series real true story documentary as far as I could say Can you dig it? So now black saw him as a man who basically hunted blacks It was discovered that he had gone to a neighborhood meeting six months before the shooting Stood up and said the crime would only be resolved once they got rid of the niggers and spics Now let's talk about that Yeah, let's talk about that Red flag red flag Hey guy who says that and then shoots for someone was probably just grabbing coffee cake when he said that like Oh god christ. Holy shit. He's a full-on racist Shooter, what the hell? He's a full-on. He's a man who tried to kill black people in the subway Who wanted to kill black people the sub? I'm shocked his motivation. It seems like it was to kill black people on the subway Jesus So now the groundswell went the other way And the da announced significant new evidence had been discovered and a second grand jury would be convened But that is bullshit, right? There was no new evidence. They were now just like we were wrong. There's no evidence The new evidence, okay consisted of some testimony from two of the guys who were shot What the fuck the guys he did the fucking da that they would it's such fucking bullshit new evidence The da we talked to two of the guys who got shot Well, I remember before when we let these guys talk on the witness stand We're gonna switch that around now because now people are pissed. We'll do the job. Yeah worst. Hi Where who represents you? Meanwhile gets begged to testify But decided not to when the da said he'd need to sign a waiver of immunity Oh, wow. Yeah, so yeah, so he's like, oh no, i'm good. I'll shut up. Hey, I want to testify what testify Really bad you put me up there put me up there. I want to testify get me up there. I want to get on it Want to tell the truth? Hey, just sign this paper not gonna do it. Can't do it. Gotta get out of here I'll tell you what I am going to roll Great to see you again The job began in 1987 the case was defended by Barry Slotnick, it's a good name. Yeah, slotnick argued that gets his actions fell within the new york self-defense Statute a person may not use deadly physical force upon another person unless He reasonably believed that such other person is committing or attempting to commit one of a certain number of Enumerated predicate predicate offenses including robbery gets was tried before mainly white Manhattan jury Six of whom had been victims of street crime Hmm How do you where are we headed? How's this one going? See me valley? Well, I got a feeling Gets is gonna be a okay ramzer testified at the trial about being shot But his angry outbursts provoked the judge to disallow his testimony And ordered him removed from the courtroom, you know, he was twice cited for contempt as he should be You know what just the temper on this guy I mean, personally, I think he's a little bit of a Guy, I mean put it in check sure be a professional. Let me let me say the next part Ramzer was sent back to prison where he was living at the time of the trial He had been convicted of raping sodomizing and robbing a pregnant woman in 1986 Who's the hero? There's one right I don't know. Okay. You know what? I don't think there is one. Okay, keep going Troy can'ti also testified answering yes and no to questions more frequently. He answered. I can't remember what asked about his own actions Slotna got can'ti to say he had been granted immunity from prosecution in connection with his testimony Getz was acquitted of the attempted murder and first-degree assault charges and convicted of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree He carried a loaded unlicensed weapon in a public place So classic america, right? classic america like He he he shot a guy and paralyzed him and gave brain damage. He shot three other guys And then they're like you shouldn't have that gun. Give us your wrist Bad bad bad man naughty man He was sentenced to six months in jail one year psychiatric treatment five years probation 200 hours of community service and a five thousand dollar fine an appellate court Affirmed the conviction but changed the sentence to one year in jail without probation So the one thing he actually needed which is psychiatric care. Yeah, is the thing that they were like don't do that No, no, no, no, no, no jail will heal him. What? Yeah, what will help you is jail, sir Jail will give him the perspective he needs So he eventually served eight months the entire episode was summed up nicely by a woman on the street in harlem Who was interviewed by a reporter? All this talk is one thing what actually happened is some other business altogether It comes down to this five assholes met on a train and one of them had a gun Okay. Okay. Yeah, so that lady should be the mayor. Okay now what happened to the guys he shot? First James Ramseur. He was the only one already in jail for up to 25 years for his crimes He was conditionally released in 2002, but he returned to prison for a parole violation in 2005 He finished his sentence in July 2010. He died on this in December After 2011 in a hotel room of a drug overdose On the 22nd of december. It was the 27th anniversary of the shooting. Wow So he killed himself that's fucking crazy get set of his death. It sounds like he was depressed What a sweetheart He was a good friend of mine Troy canty the one who was high according to his brother At first enjoyed the attention of the press He felt like a star. He was whined and dined and taken around in limousines by reporters He isn't new york. Just a fucking cesspool. Yeah, just you could totally see this. Yeah. Oh, yeah He enjoyed it for about a week until he realized he was being vilified by the press Mr. Canty had a criminal record of petty offenses like fair beating and stealing 14 from a video game machine fair beating That's where you jump the you jump the turnstile. Okay So he's the real big what a real big criminal. He deserved to be shot should have been shot Uh, he successfully completed an 18 month drug invocation training program when he was 23 Uh, he hoped to become a cook. No one knows his whereabouts now All right Which means he hasn't committed any crimes if he was they would know that he changed his name could could be now. Mr. Jenkins Now mr. Jenkins barry allen was released after serving serving some of his one to four years for grand larceny in 1991 He has no more convictions on his record. No one knows where he is Daryl kb was the most seriously injured. He was paralyzed from the waist down and suffered brain damage before being shot Mr. Kb had been facing robbery charges in the bronx the charges were dismissed doctors testified that he had the mental capacity of an eight-year-old now Uh Daryl kb cannot tell you the day of the week the month of the year his doctors say his vocabulary is now limited He does not know the name of the mayor or the governor. He doesn't know how he ended up in a wheelchair His family fired filed a 50 million dollar lawsuit against gets During the trial gets admitted to previous use of racial language and to smoking marijuana laced with pcp in the 80s Okay Wow, all right, okay sure Okay, okay, throw that one out there right whatever. Yeah a little bit of pc. By the way, that's not marijuana. That's pcp. That's pcp. I had uh pcp on marijuana I'm really tired of all these assholes in the city. Also, uh right now i'm smoking a little pcp Little weed and pcp same effect basically doesn't yeah, just mel's yeah good mix. Mel's yeah. Yep The jury awarded kb 43 million dollars Wow 18 million for pain and suffering and 25 million impunitive damages. I like how there's that divide Gets filed for bankruptcy Yeah, he didn't have the money later. I can't I can't actually pay that. Hmm. I might have to sell some of this shit I'm selling radios. Yeah A judge ruled the 43 million could not be dismissed because of the bankruptcy asked in 2004 Whether he was making payments on the judgment gets responded. I don't think i've ever paid a penny on that Do you like him No, I don't like him get slipped into obscurity and resurfaced once in a while. He ran for mayor in 2001 What a fucking asshole. What do you mean who runs for fucking mayor after you've shot more fucking people? Yeah, but he's uh He's like a hero to a bunch of people still in the in 2001. Yeah people are still like there he is Look at you. There he is. Look at buddy Trigger finger gets he was motivated by the desire to perpetuate the giuliani administration Gets his plan is to get himself was to get himself elected then hire ryu giuliani's deputy mayor And entrust pretty much all the duties to him He wanted public funded food facilities with a standard menu also to have a vegetarian menu in addition What well I mean it's a it's a platform yeah, it's a platform yeah, you know what I mean Yeah, it doesn't feel like what I advocate is a mediocre sandwich. He said Something with basic nutrition the reason I advocate a mediocre sandwich is it would be unfair to compete with all the food businesses out there To provide food of the same tasty level that the delicatessen and restaurants provide I mean vote birdie. Oh, I did I miss his point? Yes, it's mediocre sandwich. Okay, it's he wants sandwiches to be shittier much like FDR He ran on a mediocre sandwich campaign. I believe that you're wrong. I'm pretty sure that's what happened. I don't think I look it up um, no he what he's saying is Sandwiches shouldn't taste so good shitty sandwich for people It for people you're giving free food to but don't make it a good sandwich Because they never want to want that sandwich and it'll drive the businesses out of okay. It's not a great point. I mean It sounds like outtakes from a quiz nose commercial It doesn't sound like a fucking platform vote mediocre sandwich How do you respond to your opponent's accusations that you almost murdered four people cold-bloodedly on a subway car? well, uh I think we should make sandwiches taste worse. Thank you everyone Bye me on november 4th Anyway, he lost wait. Whoa. Yep In 2004 gets was interviewed by nancy grace Another level-headed human a very great person where he stated his actions were good for new york city and forced the city to address crime Which actually might be true. Well, that's what's fucked up Because yeah, did he do because laws started changing and vigilante laws certainly changed but But the city started well changing shit. So so did he? Yeah, did he set it off? He I mean cry. I know crime has gone down dramatically and then I mean after 9 11 then they were like We could search anyone anytime. What that's our new policy. Just go into your house. If you're cool with that I'm not cool with it where we're going in anyway Sorry, I shouldn't have said that part about you being cool with it. That doesn't matter. He ran for public advocate in 2005 I mean, what does that even mean on a pro-vegetarian? anti-circumcision platform Okay, good I'm glad I'm glad it's evolving because for a minute. I was like, you know, you're what's your base? What's your base this shitty sandwich people? Yeah, I mean You know, it's a platform. Um, that's where you're wrong. He's also Jewish. He's a Jewish German. So who the fuck is gonna vote for this guy people like good sandwiches and he he was against circumcision Yeah, he wants to stop Jews aren't gonna vote. He wants to stop circumcision and he wants people to not eat meat I mean you can hear the moils rolling their eyes I think the biggest problem is eating meat, but that seems to go right over people's heads I think eating meat is primitive and barbaric just like circumcision add to that a shallow television New chemical drugs and national leadership that can't be trusted and you have a lot of people who are confused and lost He shot four people vote for Bernie For vote for me for public the worst thing you can do is eat meat. You almost murdered for me Well, that's why do you think? Was I eating just as a vegetarian back then? No, I was eating meat. Okay work with me I was a murderer carnivore He lost what? Yeah Recently gets filmed scenes for a low-budget horror movie called silver knight in which he plays a nutritionist to vampires Okay So I hate the person who made that movie. Yeah, I hate the idea of a nutritionist to vampires Yes, I don't like Bernie gets no I would like to shut down show business. Yes That's worse than twilight. Oh my god. Yeah a vampire nutritionist. Yeah You need more B plus I mean really you know, you need to be negative with some warm B My job's so hollow. I just tell people to drink blood all day. Hey No, you should drink some more blood. Oh, thank you doctor guy writing. That was like Yeah, I can't believe this check cleared then in November 2013. He was resting for trying to sell An undercover cop thirty dollars worth of marijuana The officer was female get said he offered the undercover cop pot three times But she refused and insisted on paying for it He was very upset that the newspapers reported. He tried to pick up the cop He told the post that she was merely average-looking You know even as a cop that one was like fucking asshole He rejected a plea deal and said he wanted to sell the cop He rejected a plea deal and said he wanted a jury trial Because why wouldn't he it worked out so well the first time. Yeah, the case was dismissed for lack of speedy trial After on the courthouse steps. He spoke and said he wanted to Wanted there to be pot legalization instant runoff voting That he believed in vegetarianism carriage horses and discussed the policing of new york city today What? Is that a list is that a pointer is that a list of random things? No, that's what he talked about What is he he's using? Did you say carriage horses? Number four carriage horses number five Here this is a guy who's just coming out of getting a case dismissed for a shitty little pot trial. He's like Um carriage horses first of all like which leads me to carriage horses Everett's looking around. Are we supposed to be writing this down? Should we be writing this because I do anybody know who this is. What does he mean? Does he think he's speaking for cinderella carriage horses? Is uh, oh god, where is it? Who knows? Um at the trial in the middle of a conversation after the trial in the middle of a conversation with a new york post reporter Gets yelled I have to feed the squirrels and he ran off You know, I now know my new way of leaving any situation. I don't want to be in Just the middle of anything I have to feed the squirrels just run We just went full dollop Because bernard gets now enjoys the company of wild squirrels. Oh no, which he rescues from certain death at union square park bernard get Bernard gets is now a slight man with thinning gray hair. He's in his mid-60s He carries a large bag of peanuts with him as he walks through the peter cooper village housing development in manhattan He lives nearby on the four on 14th street where he sells electronics online It's near where his mugging occurred. Oh, that's nostalgic Uh, he walks around and clicks his tongue before throwing out handfuls of peanuts on the ground He feeds squirrels his passion for these animals brings him to peter cooper often But lately he has had less time to visit his small furry friends That's closed cat Uh, he has been too busy taking care of the family of squirrels that were recently born in his home uh today Getz is still a controversial figure in new york city. Why among new york's wildlife rehabilitators? what I mean if you told me when you fucking started this What that he'd be he'd be involved in a squirrel scandal That's what we would that's where it would end up Licensed wildlife rehabilitators must pass a test before being certified by the state to take in wild animals like squirrels and care For them in their homes under the supervision and discretion of the department of environmental conservation the dec Under new york state law. It's illegal to house a wild animal without being a lot a licensed wildlife rehabber Getz is not licensed. Let him have his fucking squirrels He also doesn't agree with many of the unwritten rules the rehabbers follow when caring for squirrels Oh dear getz met pam summers a fellow squirrel feeder in the park together They met the mother of the baby squirrels currently in gets his care and named her red mama After a late cold spell in the city when they witnessed a much larger squirrel chasing red mama out of the tree She lived in they decided to catch her They came back trap red mama with a net and put her in a small pet carrier Getz took the squirrel to the vet where he discovered she was pregnant with four babies He took her home to care for her and eventually the babies Red mama doesn't know What how unlucky she is? Red mama was like no Four babies will raise them as our own mama. She was like, I literally just want to leave I'm supposed i'm supposed to be in a tree. Hey, really it's supposed to be in a tree. I should not be here Uh, not a house. What is looking at a lava lamp? What's happening? Is that gone? Oh god um Pam summers photographed the newborn animals for her blog the new york squirrel Available at i'm totally crazy dot wordpress On the blog she chronicles her gets his relationship with the squirrels how many Possible views can this fucking sight have besides them right now a lot more now more more Because more because something is more than nothing The squirrels lay on top of a heating pad and a plastic god My god in a plastic rectangular storage container Getz says that dehydration is the biggest killer of kittens and baby squirrels. Yeah, or not being in nature. It also doesn't help You know, you know where you can find um Um liquid and stuff in the park. They'll find it snows and rains. They normally find it You know what take him out of the park get him in the house Hopefully we can get their way to a sink just teach them how to turn faucets. That's all you got to do. That's it Uh gets makes his own homemade milk-based formula rather than the advised formula used by many Wildlife rehabbers. He also feeds squirrels adult squirrels peanuts, which many rehabbers believe causes Metabolic bone disease. He defends his own methods by saying if it's bad for them, then why are they eating it? Well, he lives in america or Has heard of america mcdonald's. Yeah If it's bad for them, why are they eating it? That should be the name of our country Have you been to the south the name if it's bad for them? That's what a martian asks when they see earth just in a picture of a guy eating back fat. Yeah Yeah, yeah a guy just being like hey mcrib is back If it's bad for them, why do they eat it? Oh man, I can't wait to eat my boneless ribs Gets feeds the young squirrels organic strawberry milk with a syringe Every few seconds he removes the syringe from its mouth closes his own mouth over the snout of the animal and sucks Dave this is to keep the baby from inhaling liquid into his lungs while they are feeding What? Dave what does the mother do that asks summers? No, the mother doesn't do a lot of things. I do he responded Dave, what is he doing? What is he doing? He's putting he's putting he puts it in their mouth And then he sucks it out of their nose What is it? What's the benefit what? I put the whole snout actually closes mouth so he sucks so he so the so it doesn't go into their lungs So he squirts it in just like uh, just like their mother doesn't do and then he sucks it out just like his mother doesn't do Now most rehabbers use like a fake nipple. That's just like the mother that the so the Most rehabbers are almost murderers so the baby can suck the stuff out like a natural process But he squirts it in with a syringe. He's got it. He's working it out. He's working it out Um, you know when you're putting your mouth on a squirrel's face and sucking you have to think you made a wrong turn Sorry a roommate's He's not just about squirrels Oh cool in an email to another rehabber. He wrote let me know if you come across an infant hawk or a hawk ed I'm interested in raising it as a vegetarian squirrels and a hawk Oh Vegetarian I mean You don't eat meat. No fly down here and get this corn, buddy Here you go. Come and grab this tofu from my hand king. Why are you eating my hand? Oh, what is it? No, you don't eat me. You're not a meat eater. You're a veggie. You don't eat meat By the way, have you seen the baby squirrels? I know you don't eat meat. So they must be somewhere close. Holy fuck To become a rehabber in new york one needs to pass a multiple choice test of about 95 questions scoring 85 percent or higher According to gets he took the test and passed But fought against the fact that the dec requires rehabbers to keep records of every animal they take in and that they have The right to randomly check in on rehabbers homes and revoke their lifetime licenses at will They can come to your apartment anytime they want get says now I say screw that and they said well Then you can't then you're not getting your license and I was like good. I don't want my license I can just I can just make squirrels in my apartment Then why not get it and then when they take it away just keep doing the weird thing You already do you know what? You're not invited to my squirrel wedding. Why don't you squirrel wedding? Marrying red mama. We're not marrying a fucking squirrel. We're gonna make hybrid Vigilante right there vigilante squirrel babies The hawk will marry us Um, I'd like you to meet my wife red mama and uh, this is my brother hawk someone got knocked her up, but whatever I'm raising them as mine. Oh my god. I you know what? I love them so much that the other day I put milk in them with my syringe and I suck one of their eyeballs out Because I love them so much. I just sucked and I was like, oh god damn it That's an eyeball the problem is some day you'll suck an eyeball or two in my process It happens in an occupational hazard, but then you got a little cute blind squirrel in your house. Yeah boy to the taste Gets believes someone has been tipping off the dec about his squirrels That's a great sentence he recalls one february night in february of 2013 when dec officers who he calls squirrel nazis And says they were wearing bulletproof vests arrived at his door wanting to check on the well-being of a squirrel Bulletproof vests to go check on a squirrel No bulletproof vest because they're going to bernard gats's house. Oh, I mean yes for sure But the idea that you were like, hey, we gotta go check on these squirrels. Let's vest up Shit's gonna get weird on this one get your kevlar on we're about to go see what the process of uh, Four animals that weigh a cumulative pound Oh fuck me Licensed rehabbers will talk about gas but most don't want to be identified for fear of antagonizing him Bernard gets is somebody who has fantasies of how it should look like a rehabber said we tried to help him and get him educated Because he was doing everything wrong Fortunately squirrels are very hardy guys and it's almost impossible to kill them This is why he has had some success and why they don't keel over immediately with him What's the chance of a survival for baby squirrels born into your care? She was asked. Oh 100% said the rehabber Without hesitation. Wow One of the four out of the four offspring of red mama the squirrel only one has managed to survive What? Okay That's terrible He's not doing it right. He's sucking their faces. Yeah, and he's probably yeah, he's doing everything wrong He's probably doing everything wrong because he thinks that whatever he's doing is wrong Because he thinks that whatever they do is wrong. He's out of his fucking mind. Yeah, but let me just break this down So a guy who calls Black people savages Essentially animals. Yes. Yes shoots for black people, yes and Really fucks up their lives. Yes gets away with it And now he's spending his life caring for animals Yeah, that's uh, that's what you just told me and that little bit of guilt uh Yeah, probably guilt Probably a little bit of psychological weirdness happening with humans done with humans Yeah What do you think about bernard gets I can't uh I don't know Like this is the first story that no one has been good in Well, yeah, that's true Yeah, that's true. Yeah, there is no hero, but but the squirrels red mama Yeah, red mama's great mama's are although although she's basically like she's basically like one of those women who are trapped in that guy's basement In cleveland at this point. Yeah, that's true. She's she's in hell. Yeah, she's like I had four babies They're all dead and we were fine outside and then this man took me inside his blowing shit in their face It's not a good situation when you look forward to interacting with a hawk as a squirrel. You're not in a good safe spot I think bernard gets is uh Crazy Yeah, so is america though for allowing that new york and like what was happening for that to be Yeah, acceptable is fucking insane. Yeah. No, really. I mean that is a hail mary as far as like Allowing allowing someone to shoot four people and be a hero. That's pretty rare Well, not in our country, right? No, not in our country No, this is the country now where you can walk into a denny's with an assault rifle strapped to you and be like What are you looking at? Fuck? Give me a pancake. Yeah My right to carry a fucking assault rifle into a restaurant. It doesn't mean you you have to or should I am Okay, well, you're an asshole. Uh Yeah, no, I mean he yeah I he's he's crazy. But if we could just get more of these lunatics into squirrels, who knows, right? Who knows the point the sky's the limit get the crazy people into squirrels. Yeah, it's squirrel time squirrel time That's our new podcast You're listening to squirrel time I would i'm i'm bernard gets and i'm here with pat summers. I'm i'm here. I'm bernard gets and i'm here with my wife red mama That's right mama. All right. We got a lot of exciting stuff today. Uh, we're gonna be joined by a hawk in a little bit But uh, first I wanted to get to this week's story time All right, red mama, you'll have your chance to chime in in a second Chime in in a second. All right, that's it. That's that's bernard gets congratulations to him. Everybody take a bath. Yeah