 I'm gonna do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. They have okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not gonna become a tickling plot, Kathy. Okay. You are Queen Fakie of Made Up Town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Kathy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That was the opening song. No, there's already an opening. Gary. Don't you look at me like with soap opera face. Gary. Listen to me. That's our opening song. Okay. It's different. I'll say that. The second time is different than the first time. Christ. The year was 1962. Hot year. Leonard Bokrat was born on April 26th in Berlin. Okay. He came to America from Berlin at the age of 14 as a stowaway aboard a ship in 1876. Wow. What? Wait, he, he, so he's old. No, he's 14. Okay. Oh shit. 18. I should 1960. Yeah. 1860. Okay. Well, that's quite a stowaway. He stowawayed in a time machine. Okay. I'm going to start over again. The year was 1862. Well, do you want to do the song or are we good to go? All right. Now start. Now start. Okay. So he's born, he comes to America from Berlin at the age of 14 as a stowaway on a ship called the FSS Frisia. Oh, gorgeous. 1876. He was discovered en route to the New World by the captain of the ship and forced to join the crew to earn, oh, should I mention that this is a small up? Oh yeah, you should. Should we start over again? No, I think it's okay. Okay. You'll, you'll put it out, you'll put it out and you'll say it's a small up. Right. So we're doing, occasionally we're going to do small ups. It's like a short, because I'm getting some stories that are too small to be dollops, but I'm like, that's funny. Yeah. So we'll do small ups occasionally. It's time consuming, but we'll throw some in once in a while. This is the first small up. Okay. I'm ready. The year. He was discovered en route to the New World by the captain of the ship and forced to join the crew to earn his passage. He returned to Germany and back again to the United States aboard the Frisia before being allowed to disembark in New York City. Okay. Bocart drifted from state to state before signing up for the U S Calvary in Detroit. Wow. That's just sounds crazy. It's a quite a jump. Yeah. It's quite made like quite a leap. Yeah. I'll ride a horse and shoot people. Sure. His fellow soldiers made fun of him because he was Jewish. It was a terrible time. Yeah. After learning he would be fighting native American Indians who might scalp him. He deserted. He sold his horse and gun to a farmer and headed for San Francisco. Better. All right. All right. Yeah. He arrived there in 1884 at the age of 22. All right. Okay. While working on Market Street, two men approached him and struck up a conversation. They offered him a job in a local museum show. Something tells me museum shows putting a little shine on some shit. No, no. It's good. Museum show. He accepted before he even knew what the job was. All righty. By the time he asked what it was, arrangements had already been made and it was too late for him to back out. Hey, what's the job? You're in. The job he learned was to pose as the wild man of Borneo. Oh, here we go. When he arrived at the museum show, the two men stripped him from head to toe. They then covered him from head to toe in road tar. After that, they applied an enormous amount of horse hair. This gave him a savage and ferocious appearance. Underneath as well. What? He was now the wild man of Borneo. So he looks like this giant- The wild man of Borneo? He looks like this giant hairy weirdo. Is there going to be context to what the wild man of Borneo is supposed to be? Nope. This was in a day when you just bring out, there he is, the wild man of Borneo. So this was just some weird little freak show where they- Yeah, they had these all over the country then. What is he supposed to be? A wereman almost? Kind of, yeah. He's like a wild man. He's like a big- Thing from the Addams Family? Yeah. They look in Borneo. This is what people look like. Everyone's like, wow, I'm glad I don't have a television and reflex. I wouldn't go there. The men are made of horse hair. What? So he was then handcuffed, chained, and locked in a heavy cage. What? A sign was placed outside the tent to announce his presence and the amount for the ticket. Large numbers of people paid a dime each to gaze upon the wild man recently captured in the jungles of Borneo and brought to San Francisco at enormous expense. Here his catchphrase is like, hey, free me. This is a trap and illegal. Now you hold on. Oh no. To add to the supposed realism, large chunks of raw meat were poked in between the bars by an attendant and the wild man was forced to eat it rabidly. Occasionally growling, shaking the bars, and wildly yelping, oof-dee-goof-dee, oof-dee-goof-dee. That's what they told him to say. Oof-dee-goof-dee. I mean, oh my God. Oof-dee-goof-dee? Oof-dee-goof-dee. Mom and dad, I found a job. But, okay. Oof-dee-goof-dee. I didn't know you spoke Borneo. I do. I do. Oof-dee-goof-dee. I mean, I'm not going to lie. Oof-dee-goof-dee. It's a time when they're just like, a man from Borneo, they're covered in horse hair, they say oof-dee-goof-dee, and they love their raw meat. But it is a job. This is a job. Yeah, it's his job. He's not like trapped. Well, he's kind of trapped, isn't he? He is trapped? I don't, it doesn't sound like it. It sounds like it's his job. You'll see. Spectators were told that the wild man of Borneo spoke 21 languages but understood none of them. What? Yeah. I mean, that's one of the reasons he says oof-dee-goof-dee, isn't it? That line needs a rewrite. No, I don't think so. Spectators were told that the wild man of Borneo spoke 21 languages but understood none of them. How do they, how? Gab-lee-flirty-doo. Like that. I don't know what language that is. Okay. So they're non-Languages. You know what that was? He performed his, this act in the Dime Museum show and was a huge success. But the act only lasted about a week when two Irishmen came in and began poking him in the ribs. Now being of Irish heritage, I totally, totally get this. He finally yelled out something in English and that was that. He was like, fucking stop it. And they were like, whoa, oh, look at him. I told you, hoof-dee-goof-dee, we're not talking there. The show folded. The two men took off with all the cash and oof-dee-goof-dee, as he was forever known, was stuck and covered in tar and hair. I'm sorry. He was, he was covered in tar and hair. Forever? Well, he couldn't get it off. Okay. He became ill because he was unable to perspire through his thick covering of tar and hair. So like his toxic shit is backing up. He can't secrete. He can't secrete. Yeah. Doctors at a hospital tried in vain for several days to remove the tar and hair, finally dousing him with a tar solvent and laying him in the sun on the roof of the hospital in order to soften and remove the foul mixture. Oof-dee-goof-dee, oof-dee-goof-dee, oof-dee-goof-dee. He can stop saying that. Oof-dee-goof-dee. Oof-dee then got a job as a mascot for a baseball team. Wait, so did they get the tar off? Yeah. Okay. But he's still, he wants to roll the dice a little bit more maybe. Well, now he's calling himself oof-dee. Goof-dee-goof-dee. He got a job as a mascot for a baseball team. It's so great that it's oof-dee. It's just such a great made up language thing. Just say oof-dee-goof-dee. Shut up. It was not the best contract though for the baseball team. If the team won, he would receive $20. Oh boy. But if the team lost, they would get to beat the shit out of him. What? Which they did for the first two days of the job because they lost. They nearly beat the life out of me and then made me walk home. So oof-dee-goof-dee quit. Oof-dee-goof-dee. Oof-dee was then arrested for deserting the army and was sentenced to three years hard labor. Oh no. He tried to fake fits while in prison hoping they would throw him out. But doctors discovered that he was faking his fits. Then one day while doing work at the prison, he fell some distance, was injured, and was then released from jail. These are the days. These are the good old days. Oof-dee-goof-dee. Oof-dee-goof-dee had a bad fall. Oof-dee-goof-dee. Yes. That's exactly right. Perfect. Oof-dee then made his way back to San Francisco and turned to the theater. He secured a spot at a local beer hall. His job was to drink six beers with a teaspoon in ten minutes while smoking a cigar. Can he read? Could he read? Could he try to just? It's a man making his way. Maybe work at a newspaper. He knows what he's capable of and he goes after it. Sell some sort of product? The patients did not enjoy the show and he was flung onto the street onto the hard rocks. What might have otherwise been a humiliating and painful experience actually worked in Oof-dee's favor. It showed him the direction in which his career would then turn. Despite being kicked ferociously and landing heavily upon a stone sidewalk, he discovered that he felt no physical pain. For the next several years, he exploited this newfound talent by touring the city and allowing himself to be kicked and battered by all who chose to pay a price that depended upon the degree of brutality they wanted to inflict. Oh, poor Oof-dee. Poor little Oof-dee. For instance, for 10 cents, Oof-dee Goof-dee would allow a man to kick him. Oof-dee Goof-dee, for 10 cents, Oof-dee Goof-dee would allow a man to kick him, is what you just said. Yes. Okay. It's not a... It would allow a man to kick him as hard as he pleased. For a quarter, he would take a beating with a walking stick. For 50 cents... I can't wait. For 50 cents, Oof-dee Goof-dee would become the willing recipient of a blow with a baseball bat, which he always carried with him. Use mine. I mean, is there 75 cents? No, that's all that's left. Okay, okay. For 75 cents, you could murder Oof-dee Goof-dee. It was his custom to approach groups of men in the streets and in bar rooms and inquire, hit me with a bat for four bits, gents, only four bits to hit me with his bat, gents. I'm good, thanks. I've got the money you need, friend, right here. Turn around. In 1981, heavyweight boxer John L. Sullivan was in the city to fight Patti Ryan. Sullivan was the heavyweight champion of the world. He probably knocked out 200 men in his lifetime. He could carry a keg of beer up six flights of stairs and then drink most of it. He looked like a side of beef, usually well marinated in whiskey. Saloons were his home and he always entered in style. My name is John L. Sullivan and I can lick any SOB in the house. Then he would shake hands all around. Oof-dee invited Sullivan to come down and hit him as hard as he could with a billiard cue. Excuse me, friend. My name's Oof-dee Goof-dee. You can call me Oof-dee. I'd like to hit me really hard with this. There you go. Sullivan did, fracturing three vertebrae. Jesus. Even still, Oof-dee turned around and laughed at Sullivan. Oof-dee finally called the day... When the internal bleeding became too much. With the beat the crap out of me act. The blow from Sullivan caused Oof-dee to walk with a limp for the rest of his life and he was no longer immune to pain, flinching at the slightest touch. So he went the opposite way now. Now he's like, I... I... Oh. No, no, no, no, no. Oof-dee Goof-dee. Oof-dee Goof-dee. Oof-dee. Now, Oof-dee attempted to push a wheelbarrow from San Francisco to New York because of a bet. Bet him. Oof-dee, Oof-dee. Who bet him? Here's who bet him. Some guy was like, how do we get rid of this motherfucker? Hey, I got an idea. Hey, Oof-dee. I will bet you $250. I'll take it. That you cannot push this wheelbarrow to New York City. I can't do, dummy. You can have it in your face. Okay, so when you get there, I'll just pay you. I'll be there. All right. Oof-dee out. He made it 40 miles. Oh, really close. When he fell over in the dark and landed in a creek. Oh, Jesus, Oof-dee. Oof-dee continued his career trajectory. He performed as a human skittle in Woodward's garden where patrons would win a cigar if they hit him with a baseball. Wasn't he just out of the pain game? I don't know. He was like, that's it. I'm done wheelbarrowing. Back to do your thing. You guys want to hit me with a baseball really hard? No. He also performed along with a plus-size actress of sorts who went by the name of Big Bertha in a Shakespearean spoof dubbed Borneo and Juliet. Wow. So there was even hack shit back then. He performed in the character as the wild man of Borneo, though the storyline followed the original script to a large degree. So that's a really interesting... Yeah. I would pay to see that. Oh my God. Yeah. Why'd you say that? It's all I want. For $20, he allowed himself to be shipped in a box to Sacramento as a joke gift for a young lady. This guy's such low self-esteem. No, but does anyone ever hug him? Oof-tee, it's okay, bud. Oof-tee. A feat made even more harrowing by the fact that they left him upside down in the unopened package in a warehouse over the weekend. What? Oof-tee-goof-tee sat in a... Upside down in a box. Great for a weekend. Oh, yeah. For 20 bucks. It was an ordeal that didn't seem to lessen his bravado, although he later admitted he was pretty near played out that time. That was a tough one, even for Oof-tee. Even for Oof-tee. Oof-tee can say, Oof-tee no likey. Oof-tee didn't like that. No Goof-tee about that one. No Goof-tee about that one, Oof-tee. Oof-tee Goof-tee was then invited to Texas by Mr. Holland. Oh, no. While entertaining some man at a private party, he was asked if he could eat 30 quail in 30 hours. 30 quails? That's when Oof-tee said, this was my first quail eating contest. That was the hardest experience of my life, but I consider myself the champion quail eater of the United States. That was the hardest. Not getting hit by a bat. No. Or being covered in tar and hair and put in a cage for a week. Yeah, and have to have chemicals burn it off while you're on a roof like a fucking... In the sun. Yeah. In Texas, Oof-tee traveled from one oil field to the next where he would entertain drunken workers by racing to drink beer with a bar spoon and engaging in quail eating contest, which were all the rage at the time. Quail eating contest. After his spoon and quail career came to an end, he became an imitation diamond merchant walking around with a suitcase full of fake diamonds, selling them to blokes. It's not known what happened to Oof-tee after he was interviewed by the Houston Daily Post on August 9th, 1900. I actually found the newspaper and read the newspaper from 1900. And? It's crazy. Most of that is from his interview where he's saying what his life has been like. Oof-tee. Oof-tee-goof-tee. Oof-tee... I mean... Yeah. I just can't believe there was a time when I didn't know about oof-tee-goof-tee. It was a dark time in your life. Oof-tee-goof-tee. Yeah. Oof-tee. How do you feel? I feel like I wish I could have seen the Borneo Man show. The Wild Man of Borneo. Oh my God. I think you saw... I mean, to see... Just right now, if we could just go and just walk through this little weird museum only to see him be like, oof-tee-goof-tee, oof-tee-goof-tee, oof-tee-goof-tee, just to be like, that's going to be your name... Yeah. People poke him with sticks and throw fucking meat at him. Put him red meat and eat it. Yeah, until two Irishmen did it and he goes, all right, I'm fucking enough. Stop it. Stop. Oh, I told you. And that's what did it too. It wasn't the fact that he was dying from tar poisoning through his pores. He was like, these Irish guys were kind of pricks. Right. He couldn't take the Irishman. Anyway, that's our small up. The story of oof-tee-goof-tee. I just... Do you feel good about yourself? I feel oof-tee-goof-tee. Your life is going well. Yeah, no. I can't feel pain. Oh, I can. I can. Real bad pain. I can really... Wow. I think I might live forever. Holy God, he is strong as a bull. I was not feeling pain, but I got to tell you, when you break my vertebrae, that's where the nerves are. I think that's my threshold is when my vertebrae crack. Yep. I think there's nerves in there. He's good. I am not doing well. You know what? Put me in a box. Send me to Gladys. Put me in a box for the weekend, upside down. That will help my posture, right? Boys, I'm heading to New York with this wheelbarrow. Hey. It was great to meet everyone, but unfortunately, the wheelbarrow game and came a-callin'. Off I go on my barrel march. Oof-tee-goof-tee out. And then 40 minutes later, he's like, hey, I'm not going to do that shit. Fuck that game. I lost that bet, huh? Who's got a spoon? Who's got a spoon? Who wants to punch oof-tee-goof-tee in his nuts? For a cigarette. Who's going to put a bottle rock in my ass? Oof-tee's here. Come on, someone can pull my heart out for $2. Oof-tee-goof-tee time. Pop my eyes out with a spoon. I'm here. Hello. Never been hugged. Never been hugged over here. Nobody loves oof-tee. Raised in Germany, kind of tough. Raised in Germany, still wait a lot of times. Goof-tee's the name, oof-tee's the game. Oof-tee-goof-tee, oof-tee-goof-tee. Oof-tee-goof-tee. Alright. Alright, David. That's our first Smollup. Congratulations. That's what happens. Oof-tee-goof-tee. Oof-tee-goof-tee. Alright. Alright, David. That's our first Smollup. Congratulations.