 I Do you want to look here to do one bottle people say this is funny not Gary Gara Stay okay, someone or something is tickling people is it for fun and this is not gonna come to tickling clock. Yeah Yeah, you are queen fakie of made-up town all hell queen shit of Liesville a bunch of religious Virgins go to mingle and do what pray Hi That's um no wait, let me stop you because I know you're gonna say what that's the new theme song or that's like the dollop So but it's not yeah, no it isn't we do a lot of experimental here. No and Yeah, that's it. No Can I say something what first of all you're not drinking a perrier usually you drink in a parrier I've been doing I'm using I you I make the sparkling water home and I put it in the now Yeah Soda machine baby, so I have a parrier a very small one a small one on the side. It says discover street art Facebook Dot com slash parrier. Oh cool. So hey, where'd you find out about about Banksy? It's funny. I was actually drinking parrier and And they keyed me into it. I'd never heard of it before I don't know what Street art was and now I'm just Super into it. I also space invader you're that guy Fucking perrier turn me on to them I turn me on to them as well as sex like I didn't know about fucking until the side of parries I tried putting it inside play just the tip and I was like what god I love good new good choice Parrier yeah, and I put the tip in and it would go on the whole way in yeah, and then I had my girl got pregnant No, I asked Parrier what to do and it said you can get rid of it You can get an abortion I found out about that It's really been guiding me very is great great Hey, I have to A shout out to dr. Puss. Yep, who is a great band name by the way It's a great band name and they're a great band and they said that they'd listened to that They burned through the dollop on their travels in the United States and I went and saw him last night And they were fucking awesome fantastic and They shouted if to goofy so they shouted if you goofy check your mic to make sure the settings are all correct. Yeah, it is I got the regular this little guy Right. Yep Yep, that's the guy. Oh Switch that one. Which one? Yeah, there we go. That's it. Yeah, I think that's it was everything bad until then no, it was okay I just thought I need to be a little bit louder sure break it out a little bit Sure sure sure sure sure sure sure shit out. Excuse me We're in Gareth's house. Yeah, that's your first time and they're been in the Gary before is it called the Gary? Why would it be my name is Gareth? So no, I don't know if I believe that the year was 1864 We're starting. Yeah, all right Carl Aigley was born in Clarendon, New York and grew up on a farm attending school for only three years A good amount of time back then while you get into the second grade. You're like, I'm good pretty sure I know most of nothing everything He was a quiet soft-spoken pale skinny farm boy who loved animals and nature almost to an unhealthy degree Well, here we go We'll be hearing about that part again It boarded on obsession Well, his friends are out studying and playing Carl was out in the woods drawing realistic pictures of animals and plants in his own blood Hey Real quick just a question go ahead. He was a painting which is great I love to paint and it was the paint. It was his blood. Yeah. Well, it's the nearest thing that's available Besides paint. Well, uh paint you have to go to the store Whereas if you're gonna use your own blood, you just you know poke a hole, okay? There's more arguments against blood, but let's just keep pressing through Eventually this led to taxidermy Which he thought was far more fun than farming wait eventually this led to taxidermy. Yeah He just was painting he was painting with his blood with his blood and then he was like I feel like just stuffing Oh, yeah, I should I should put him full of stuff. Okay the dead ones That's nice Carl spent hours and hours in his room studying a taxidermy manual ordered from the back of the magazine youths companion Wow, I mean that was a great mag. I can't believe I think shut down. Yeah It's a magazine and in the back is like how did stuff dead animal? You know what maybe just make a friend Hey, this is youth companion talking. Hey, this is youth companion Do you not want to have any friends at all by this manual by this manual and then pay attention to the ads and back The manual was only one dollar and instructed readers to work in secret so that no one may know the mystery of the art Also, because if people knew you were doing taxidermy when you're 12, they're not gonna want to go anywhere near you that's like when like Like somebody who touches kids is like your mom and dad will get mad at you. Yeah, you know, yeah, well, it's also It's also very uh, I Wouldn't say pedophily, but it's like it's like Serial serial killer ish. It's don't tell anybody you fucking around dead animals. Yeah, don't tell anyone Don't tell anyone you're putting stuffing in dead animals asses. Yeah Look at you different. They don't do it through the asshole. We'll get more into I know you do I've always done it. Yeah, I okay He was able to teach himself the procedures of taxidermy up to a point where he felt justified in having business cards printed announcing that he did artistic taxidermy in all its branches So he's so go ahead and go pass those out downtown. Yep. How you doing? Hey artistic taxidermist Where you going? You're 12 right? I'm 12 years old halfway through my life Under his bed on his windowsill on every free surface in his room were dead stuffed animals chipmunks robin squirrels Rens everyone could look Easy place to take a girl to The animals were covered in a solution that kept flies from enjoying the dead Great preparation that smelled fine. Yeah, the whole room smells smell great. Oh, yeah preparation of the solution To half pint of 60% alcohol add an ounce each of arsenic camphor alum and a bit of strict nine Shake it well and let it stand for 12 hours label poison and keep the bottle well-corked Hey, hey Carl, what you doing in there buddy? Nothing With my poison like I get a marker and some more poison labels Nothing no parents I Carl used his taxidermy as escape from a song home There was a podcast over the house due to the deaths of three of his infant brothers Okay His mother's grief kept her wondering about the home like a ghost. All right, so let's just just from a cycle Let's sit from a psychological standpoint sure three Infants have died. Yes, and now the mother is like a shell of a person and the boy is Upstairs trying to save the dead so I think everything's fine and good here Sigmund Freud would not be Nothing here nothing to see here. I thought this going on inside the house. Nothing Siggi. It's all normal move on Just a bunch of poison Lackard stuffed dead animals and a bunch of ghosts This one is labeled mommy love me too. I mean poison. I mean poison Over the years his mother had come to blame his father and she turned all her bitterness on him attacking him constantly Fulfilling to give her a good life things are only made worse when his father paid another man a thousand dollars To go fight in the Civil War in his place Wow always a I mean, it's a tough call. It's a masculating, but yeah, but either way you're fucked Yeah, you're either gonna die or people are gonna be like you are a huge pussy. Yeah, the man survived the war and Then was able to collect interest on the debt for years sinking the family further into poverty He made a bad deal that guy but the guy who went and fought made a great deal. Oh, yeah, that guy's I'm you keep giving me the money at some point one of Carl's ants became alarmed at how pale and unholson the boy looked a 13 year old boy shouldn't spend all his time in his room with Dead animals it was a disgusting habit and now other children were teasing him and taunting him his aunt was especially concerned for Carl's Soul because he refused to stop his disgusting hobby on the Sabbath Okay, that's every most of it's fine But the fact that you're doing it on the Sabbath that is not your day I'm okay with all the debt listen. You're very pale for a 12 year old you need to stop cutting up squirrels on the Sabbath That's the problem here. That is the problem. By the way, also the kids were having a fucking field day. Oh my god Could you imagine? I mean I would have just I would have relentless. I would have murdered him so bad He would have had to stuff himself For that behavior The aunt wanted to take him to the county asylum, which is only a half a day's ride from the farm But that all changed When his aunt forgot to put the drape on her pet canaries cage one night. Oh Shit the bird was found dead in the morning. Oh Carl quickly came to the rescue cut it open stuffed it and mounted it right back in the cage Now it was all good with the aunt. Oh Jesus Christ I want a selfish bitch. Oh Now that I've seen the magic You're fine. We're all fine Mama, let's dig up the babies. I'll make our house better You see there's no problem here everything's full of life still It looks like you it's eyes never closed it loves you it loves you look into its eyes I Carl then got a job working for David Bruce who is making a nice living as a decorated during the current nature craze Oh, what a what a rush that was What is the nature craze? Okay? He painted wildlife murals in Brockport, New York for rich people in their parlors So everyone was into like making stuff look just like they wanted to live in a rainforest cafe Yeah, like that that wall should have like a bunch of bears on it or you know, whatever They just wanted wildlife shit everywhere. Sure beats outside Bruce lived just a couple miles down the road from the Akely family farm at once He could see the boy had something about him and dead animals He just knew very perceptive a true calling someone say. Oh, yeah, huh? He's so good with the dad. He's great. Have you seen what he did to his aunt's canary? God it's like it's still chirps Carl had no knack for mixing paints or cleaning brushes or sketching starfish But whatever a chain whenever a chance arrived to stuff a bird or chipmunk for one of the cabinets Bruce assembled for his clientele Carl was all over that So what I think that means is that people would order a cabinet and they'd want birds on top of it or a squirrel sure What I mean, what's the downside of having? Dead birds on your camera creepy at all. Nope. I Find it charming Bruce saw that Carl was far more gifted at taxidermy than he after a few months it became obvious that unless people just wanted their homes Decorated in all dead animals. This wasn't the right job for Carl. Yeah Instead Bruce advised Carl to apply for a job with the famous wards natural science establishment in Rochester, New York Okay, Carl followed the advice. He stood nervously on College Avenue staring at 14 white buildings for a while Then got enough courage and entered he stopped a man carrying a large stiff anteater You gotta stop that If you're trying to find a taxidermist and you see a guy walking by with a stuffed anteater you go, excuse me Oh, you look like you might know where I'm going. Oh my god as a taxidermist I'll just play it cool play cool man. Don't blow this shit. That is the mother of all dermis Okay, just play cool. You don't want it Cool man, don't freak out. Don't freak out. I don't know if I can fit you in but I'm maybe He asked the man where he might find professor Henry J Ward He was directed toward a building where a stuffed ape sat on the front porch and he was like Professor Ward was held in high esteem and had helped several of the country's best natural museums get off the ground Carl was hired by Ward at a starting salary of three dollars and fifty cents a week boom. Yeah, bring in it Buy yourself a couch. That's the money there. Yep 350 he would work 12 hour workdays have room and board taken out of his salary and There are no holidays or sick days cool. It's a great job. That's perfect. He gets to work with dead things all my god heaven And there was absolutely no sleeping on the job That was like it. It was like a they said that there's no sleeping on the job See that seems like that would make you want to sleep on the job. I'm very tired now At that at this point Ward's business was like an assembly line for natural history museums Right, so they just crank out cranking them out. Yeah, put them in there huge money is what we're saying. Yeah, big fuck fuck you squirrel money. Yeah The art of taxidermy as practice at Ward's was very simple and yet typical of the era to stuff an animal the skin would first be treated with salt alum and arsenic soap the bones wired and wrapped and put back inside the legs and And And once hung upside down the skin literally stuffed with straw or sawdust until it could hold no more So that sounds good, right? Yeah, it's just like making a baseball It really takes a lot of the shine off of me like my canaries alive It's like, you know, it's bones or wires, but who who is like that's that's what I want to do Oh, yeah, who is no, there's something wrong You know, I think you just need to have three of your brothers die Wait, you also had your brothers die. Oh my god. They make that connection. This is so weird. What about you Jeff for four brothers? Oh my god, all of our brothers died now. Let's put some wires in these anteaters Shapes and contours would be achieved by simply beating the detail into the mount with a plank of wood Mmm, just the delicate touch of beating it with wood The end result was a lump of fur that sort of looked animal-ish Perfect. Akely thought this was a terrible way to go about stuffing dead animals But Carl found little of the inspiration he sought in the job He was critical that much of the work lacked any anatomical accuracy Okay, he was like I want he's the stickler. He's wants more sure he's the guy That's fair. He doesn't want to be an assembly line. He wants it to be Beautiful. He's passionate about it. Mm-hmm. I get it The process often left lumpy misshapen monsters literally stuffed empty animal bags Carl was embarrassed by his profession in truth the art of taxidermy was no different than the craft of upholstery Which is true the way that it's now. That's not a I mean Not not wrong But there are some differences I can think of a couple things they might be psychological differences He thought taxidermy should be used to make exhibits that could give museum goers an accurate look at wildlife with the stuffed animals And something that looked as much like their natural environment as possible What a lunatic for wanting museums to actually portray what nature was Yeah, because he you probably just went in there and you were like there's just like a ball of fur and you're like that's a beaver You probably were like there's this one species that we're learning so much about today. It's this really mushed fur Species I've never heard of it. How are all the animals round? Yes, all of the animals are round and beaten with wood Why is there straw coming out of its mouth he's alive oh So, okay, no more questions over here you look at some more mush fur I would love to get some pictures. Oh God during this time Carl began to experiment with his own style of taxidermy Renegade yeah, okay, yeah, okay cut loose But Ward did not want any fancy thinkers going off and trying to give their animal stuffing dreams on the trying to have their animal Stuffing dreams on the on his clock right sure. Yeah but that was But that left a Carl to working at night. He'd stay in work and was experimenting on new ways of taxidermy So he's can't sleep during his job working 12-hour days We're in 12-hour days. He can't sleep during that and then at night. He's going off in his own Yeah, he's doing he's doing extras. He's plugging the guitar into the amp. I Getcha on one occasion he stole a zebra A dead one. Oh good and worked on it through the night until dawn He said about skinning and molding the body He managed to remove the entire skin through one incision to the belly and Smell it cuts to the lower legs which he slipped off like socks Sex gross socks when he was done skin socks. Yeah Yeah, girl. No girl. No, what when he was done. It looked like the zebra had left out of its body So success Finally looks like an animal Okay, you mean this he stuffed the skin alone so it looked like the zebra or you mean he cut it He cut it and he pulled it off So it you what I'm talking about the after you take the skin off with the zebra looks like right cool Usually it would be that's not really workable for I think it's pretty great Ma he then hung the skin up to dry as You will do there's not things you want to be saying about a person. I don't know But after he slept he came back the following day to find that someone had opened the zebra skin up entirely And it was mounted in the old way and his cast thrown out into the dump Fuck off fancy boy. I bet he was fine with this. What are you doing there bitch? Hey, man Quit your revolutionary stuffing. It ain't art man. I just make another bush first put more fucking hay in it This became a theme he was repeatedly sabotaged by his fellow co-workers We got ways of stuffing dead animals smarty pants. Oh the fucking land. We threw the corpse out again, bro What are you gonna do now? You're gonna do man. Maybe we should stuff him. Maybe you stop slipping shit off like socks Hey, bro, yeah, hey What a bunch of assholes, too. I don't know why they turned to Latino guys Oh, they they became an aggressive street gang Then Carl and Ward had a misunderstanding Carl was too ambitious and too careless it even a bit arrogant and he boasted that he was an artist not a sculptor Fuck yeah, professor Ward fired him. Oh, he also fell asleep on the job Well, he was just all night skinning zebras like socks He never had a chance to explain that to Ward That as a young man late at night stuffing a squirrel. He was doing it for the betterment of society He was unable to make that clear But he never know he got fired right and he just said they were like you're sleeping and they were like that's it That was there. That was the problem So that was that and he went to work in New York with taxidermist John Wallace The famous Quote from Carl a more jury six months. I have never spent anywhere Taxidermy has a dark side. Are you sure? I thought taxidermy was a dark side. It's worse. No, I Guess the dead animals sucked here Carl was stuffing and mounting birds for the hats of ladies on Fifth Avenue You could just picture that fall from grace. He was like two months ago I was skinning zebras trying to slip it off like socks and now I'm making hat birds I mean so hats were awful back then. Are you sure awful? Oh, I love your hat. It's fucking crazy Don't look like a bird lives on you it is it's a bird in a squirrel That's great in the 1880s trendy bonnets were piled high with feathers birds fruit flowers Furs even mice and small reptiles. What the fuck? What do they do? They're like they sound like background players in the jungle book The craziest thing ever it's just snakes. Yes, people one up. Yeah. I don't you see Margaret She's wearing an alligator on her head that bitch She's rolling in it Birds by by we're by far the most popular accessory women sported egret plumes owl heads Sparrow wings and whole hummingbirds an owl head Man, look at her. Look at the games on that day, mate No to be that owl I kind of want to hit on you, but I'm terrified that there's an owl that keeps looking at me No, not an owl the head of an owl. Yeah, a whole owl maybe better I guess Then just the severed head you look like a shaman you're scaring me a Single hat could feature all those birds What that's not a plus four or five warblers if I had a time machine I think my first stop might be to this time to just be like no then get back in That there should be an owl or an ostrich left with a single feather apiece hardly seems possible Harper's Bazaar reported in in 1897 Jesus in 1886 Frank Chapman went to the women's fashion district on 14th Street to tally the stuffed birds on the hats of passing women He identified the wings heads tails and entire bodies of three bluebirds two red-headed woodpeckers nine Baltimore Orioles five blue jays 21 21 common turns a Saw-whet owl and a prairie hen into a hen I Just like trying to figure out when they're gonna be like we've gone too far owl head sounded like it a prairie hen I'm sure it's at some point someone's like I'm putting a dog on here. Yeah, that's it Yes, that's it. I would love to see what it was. Yeah, it's just the sitting dog on my head. Doesn't your neck hurt? It's fucking killing me But I'm the bell of the ball In two afternoon trips Chapman counted a hundred and seventy four birds and forty species in all So he's like a bird watcher on 5th Street. Yeah, bird watchers are probably just like you can just sit here There goes a red. Yep, look at that across the world It is estimated 200,000 birds a year were killed and ended up as fashion It must have been so fucking confusing for birds at first to there probably Henry Henry Jesus Christ What the fuck I came over to say hi, but you're just staring at me dad It's just the head of dad Carl worked in a dark dank basement in a moldy warehouse under the Brooklyn Bridge Healthy the workshop stank of death and the sound of whistles of passing tugboats and other vessels was endless So now it's like a bad movie Yeah, his boss John Wallace was a short intense man with a cockney accent who loved the shit out of beer Akely and the other young taxidermists mostly boys So it's like a bad summer job. Yeah, it's like a or some of you do have to get out of college Yeah, what are you doing? You know what I haven't figured out yet. So right now. I'm just just you want to jump stuff at birds for hats Oh, okay, cool. Come to this basement that smells like mold They would all come in and sit around a table on wooden benches Hunters would come in with bags of dead birds from New Jersey or Long Island and Wallace would haggle with them Then the bag would be dumped dumped dumped onto the table Sometimes 400 birds a day. Oh my god for oh my god Bluebirds, sparrows, wax wings, whatever they could shoot just a big bloody heap of dead birds on the table Car will reach into the pile pull out a bird skin it quickly shape it into something that would look great on a lady's head And then move on to the next one his fingers bled from the sharp bird talons and the sewing needles He would often skin a hundred birds a day. Ah Then the birds were dried boxed and shipped off to the fashion district The dead bird on a hat was at its peak fashion wise and Wallace had the best reputation for quickly skinning birds This is another thing that why like in movies that take place around this Why does nobody exploited the fact that birds were on I have no idea. It's insane. Yeah, why wouldn't that? How is that not in all movies? That's a pretty pretty great detail any movie that is taking place around this time the 1890s it should just be all dead birds on I Remember gangs in New York. I don't remember one bird hat one bird. I'm not one one There's also different time period. He was completely depressed and no liar considered himself an artist He thought he deserved his purgatory for being arrogant when he was at wards. Okay Sure, so when Henry Ward came after Carl declaring that his dismissal had been an erroneous mistake He happily returned to his former employer Okay, so things are well things are not good there They're better are better than working in the bird heap. Yeah, but he hated. Yeah, we're back though While there his biggest job was mounting the famous elephant jumbo from PT Barnum Circus. Wow, okay That seems like a pretty good gig jumbo died in a terrible train accident and Carl and his supervisor Critchley were sent to complete the five month project of mounting jumbo. Wow, it could have been easy to mount it No, especially when you're rusty because you've been doing birds. Yeah, you and and I mean who knows what a train accident Does to the body of an elephant? There's also that it can't be good. I'm sure it's not good. It can't be great. Yeah Carl left wards after three years and took a position at the Milwaukee Public Museum Hey, you've been there girl. Been there. You've seen some of his work. Sure. Yeah, apparently a lot of it's still there Oh, then I have yeah, it became the turning point of Carl's career where over the eight years that he worked at the museum He was able to put into practice many of the ideas he had theorized over His during his day at wards He was a also prolific inventor at this time perfecting a cement gun to repair the crumbling facade of the Field Colombian Museum in Chicago He is today known as the inventor of the shotcrete or the gunite as He turned the time and can you imagine a day without gunite? I mean I Love to just go out with my shotcrete and just blast some are we shot creating this week? Yeah, we are shocked okay? Cuz I don't know if you are no I got I got all set up. We're gonna shot. We shot create a couple of Starbucks Yeah, I can't wait Over his lifetime. He was a war awarded more than 30 patents for his inventions So he's no dummy. Yeah, but he no no dummy, but he also invents stuff like the shotcrete, right? So totally useless yep It was at the Milwaukee Public Museum that he revolutionized taxidermy he created realistic looking animals surrounded by their natural habitat He dedicated his life to making the most Life-like dead animals around using plaster and modeling clay while paying special attention To the musculature behavior and skeletal structure of the animal He went out of his way to make it look like it was still alive To take it a step further He then put the animals in life-like environments devising new ways to create Life-like trees and plants out of wax wire thread and other stuff He may sure that any museum exhibit he designed was life-like and as realistic as possible, but what? That's good for him But why why was there anybody who was like no? Don't make it you know people hate change. Yeah, but but okay So you're working in taxidermy and you're taking like a skunk and you and you and I've mushed it into a nice ball Yeah, you basically just fucking shoved shenan as fast as you can. Yeah, there's a skunk And now some guys like look man That's got to look really great and more like a skunk and then you have to make a skunk environment Yeah, if you're that dude, you're like, I don't want to be here 15 hours a day. I want to fucking punch the clock I'm the talent scout in back You know, I'm like, all right. I like what this kid's saying It's I'm telling you that just people didn't want to do the work I mean, I feel like people with birds on their heads would be pretty understanding. Well, that's that's a good point. Thank you His first project in draw involved the portrayal of a lap lander driving a caribou sled over the snow This successful project was followed by another exhibit involving orangutans collected in Borneo. So he's fucking doing it Yeah, he's living the dream Borneo where uh, Mufti Gufti is said He also took his first trip to Africa to hunt his own animals from the museum Okay, his hunting trips did not always go well. I'm curious why On one particular day he was in Somalia checking out the wildlife Hunting alone he shot a hyena and a warthog and then left them in a secure place and continued hunting That's probably not a good call Why are you saying that in well Africa in the 1900 that there isn't like a Like a lock box. Yeah. No, I I I feel like that's gonna bite him in the ass Like you don't think there's like a hunting locker that you know your stuff. No, I feel like it's probably almost like bait Oh, yeah, well, that's interesting. That's interesting theory. Isn't it? Hmm Later in the day he went back To his spot but instead of finding his dead hyena and warthog. He found two big bloody streaks leading into the bushes Oh, I should probably go see what that is Carl heard noises and froze It took him just a second to realize what was happening, but it was already too late He raised his rifle and fired to try to scare off the animal, but that didn't work at all Suddenly out of the suddenly out of the bushes left a gigantic leopard. Oh Carl was unable to get his weapon pointed quickly enough So he dropped his gun and threw his arm up just in time to prevent the beast from ripping out his throat The leopard latched onto Carl's left hand biting down with everything it had while kicking him with its back legs The classic two pronged cat attack Yeah, double double down. It's also, I mean on behalf of animals. It really has a lot of ass to kick out Yeah, yeah, I mean When he tried to pull his hand out of the leopards jaws it only made the cat bite down harder Oh, so he's basically fucked. There's not a lot of winning moments. No, this is not going well at all So that's the end of the doll. Was a good story. That's really good No, it's not actually used as taxidermy brain and punched his fist down into the leopards mouth Oh, shit greatest Move of all time. Well, the leopard was like, that's worse. No, I didn't that's new a first Congratulations my friend. Not the self don't eat fists. This is his first live taxidermy It's exciting Uh So, you know, if this ever happens to you if the leopards ever eating your Hand and punching you in the gut with its back legs. You just cram your fucking hand deeper into it Because the leopard gagged Because it was choking. Yeah, it gagged like a baby Then carl pulled his hand out and he grabbed the leopard and body slammed it to the ground Then he jumped on it with both knees Whoa, now it's like professional wrestling now like other leopards like we should get the fuck out of here I don't know what's happening And then he crushed it to death with his knees. Jesus christ. Yeah How do you feel about carl now? I feel I feel like carls a little Hugh glassy at this moment a little Hugh glassy So now he was bleeding from a shitload of terrible ones to do one of his hands one of his hand his hand was shattered Uh, his torso was clawed up and also at the same time he was recovering from a bottom malaria So when this happened he was already a little woozy sure. Well, uh a leopard attack will make you feel a little dizzy Yeah, it's a lot. They they say if you're getting over malaria to not fight a leopard. Yeah, they've always it says It's just right on the antibiotic bottle Take with food No leopard fight don't fight leopards don't fight leopards, but if you do you just punch through it He was barely able to stand but he did and then he picked up the leopard and threw it over his shoulder and walked back to camp Because he's a taxidermist while lions were just like, uh Even though he feels like shit. He's like well, i'm not leaving this here Well, I didn't realize I was working still but okay still on the clock. I'm coming with me bitch God damn I mean you also want it just to like go up to other people and be like so I killed this with my hands with my hands What did you do today? Oh really? You just made a bird hat. Just see good talking. I just want to see a guy Walking back to camp whistling with a leopard over his Kill the leopard Hey, my hands fucked up this thing died from my knees. What'd you guys do make a fire? Oh cool way to go Uh when back at camp you did a little taxidermy taxidermy and presto museum exhibit Leopard Jesus the encounter the times wrote Of the encounter the the times wrote Eckerly had been bitten and clawed to shreds before he finally succeeded in throttling the enraged carnivore The cat's body grew limp and for the first time in history One of great one of the great jungle felines succumbed in a fair fight to a weaponless man. It's crazy weaponless weaponless weaponless guy beat the shit and out of and kill the leopard beat a leopard with his hands Carl was photographed his arms and bandages standing alongside the strangled leopard I'm gonna use that one for the picture for the oh great. Yeah his eye He eyes his former adversary the leopard with deep suspicion as if the animal might yet return to life and bite his head off understandable, it's a great picture But did this life-or-death struggle keep car away from heading back out to nature? I guess his fuck. No He married his wife Dilya in 1902 she accompanied accompanied him on expeditions to kill and stuff animals So bring the lady out, of course And she participated completely Okay One of the family elephants One of the family african elephants in the african hall at the museum American Museum of Natural History standing today was shot by his wife Dilya. Jeez He remained with the museum for eight years when due to his outstanding work in both taxidermy And museum exhibits he was offered a position with the british museum in london Good up and up. Yep He accepted it and on his way there he decided to stop off at the american museum of natural history in new york While there officials at the field museum heard about the offer from the british museum and made a counter offer Wow, now they're fucking bidding on the taxidermy. He's like a hot commodity Wow Yeah, what do you mean you're not coming? We've already made a deal. I got a better deal over here The york museum offered him a much better contract and the opportunity to go on an expedition to africa to secure specimens He accepted on the spot. Okay. He agreed to work for free Interesting interesting move happening here. I don't know what's happening here. Okay The only man who creates a bidding war for nothing. I'm terrible at negotiating I'll do it for zero. But if you two both want me, I'll do it for nothing I think I got a pretty good deal Uh, he agreed to work for free as long as the museum would finance him finance him on a bunch of trips to africa to collect specimens. So all he wants is to be able to go to africa and Get a ship paid for that's fine free travel. Sure. That makes a lot of sense But that means he's killing animals just so we understand what he's doing. Yep. Yep Carl saw this is a mission of conservation instead of as a guy shooting animals and putting them back together So people on another continent could look at them for fun in the early 1900s It was a time when every dude with a few bucks headed over to africa and shot the living shit out of beautiful animals It was just with the thing it still happens now. I know but then it was like then it was the thing It was almost it was like a a bird on a hat if you Carl was worried that this senseless destruction of wildlife would end up completely Depopulating entire swaths of the african countryside He should just learn to have his government not worry about that. Yeah, I agree way better policy So he went on a simple mission observe the wild animals get between two and five various breeds of african wildlife Preserve their hides and memorialize them in a lifelike sculpture. So they look exactly like they did in the wild except Without a beating heart Except without the life part you can't explain that to the animals unfortunately. They look at it as just a murder Guys, I'd like to work with you and have you just stand still for a few years But I've also had a leopard eat my hand and know how you get I'm going to kill you Your memory will live on carl wanted future generations to know what a hippo looked like And he assumed they would soon be extinct So a better way to help people remember animals than by killing them and making them into stuffed animals, right? Sure logic Yep So off to africa he went on several chips He's actually and his wife were now becoming a famous hunter couple written about in used papers. No, of course I mean everybody it's just like today with our famous hunter couples. Yeah The it hunter couple In 1909 who hunted it better? In 1909 on yusan geishu plateau in narobi His party met up with the hunting party of theater roosevelt's missonian expedition. Oh, shit So he's banging with the big boys Ex-president wrote of roosevelt had already been in africa for five months collecting animal bodies for display at the Smithsonian many of which were still there are still there today now He was the president when he did this he just you just gotten out of okay He literally got out of his got on a boat and went and fucking shot Okay, because I would just be so amazing for a president. I know I mean well I mean well if you like I'm gonna take five months off and go kill animals. Uh, okay You know, it'll be worth it when I come back and you see what a hippo is Our infrastructure and the quiet pipe down hippos hippos Uh overall roosevelt and his companion is killed or trapped approximately 11,400 animals What? From insects to moles to hippopotamuses and elephants Roosevelt was funded by carnage one of the richest men in the world Yeah, and what and carnage it was like just come back with everything. Oh, I thought like eight or nine not all Five months 11,000 animals 11,400 animals I mean On the second day together they came across a herd of elephants and roosevelt and his son killed four It's a little much since elephants are huge their skin can take 12 hours to remove So carlin his crew were able to save the skins from two large cows and a calf The skin bones and tusks were placed on wagons then onto a train then onto a boat and ship to the us So he So roosevelt shot some animals he and then he and his dudes in africa Just fucking cut him up and Send him home. I mean basically you're taking out all of the meat, right? That's what you're doing. You're just removing all the meat and then just being like don't need that and then you send everything else back perfect and someone and then there's a A cross shipment and a lady opens up a box expecting hats. Oh my god This isn't my luggage And that's when people started wearing elephant bones on their hats the latest trend However, a bull was needed for the completion of the family diorama for the museum, right? What was a bull you gotta have a you gotta have a daddy because you got the two the two ladies and the baby Yeah, now you need a daddy, right? Go get them. Go kill 900 of them for that became achle's goal There were a few large bulls remaining Because of the ivory ivory trade. So basically the ivory trade was happening and there were hardly any big elephants left, right? Days turned to months and carl's spirit suffered. He became ill with several ailments men and gyatis Spirulium fever black fever and others And others. Yeah, he had them all Jesus his wife dealia became his nurse as he fought off the ailments in his cot in his tent She would occasionally head out when an elephant herd was reported nearby in an attempt to end the search for the bull Carl kept getting out of his cot and rushing into the jungle only to have a relapse and be brought back in a hammock to start his Start the battle with his ailments all over again So you just like get up to me. I feel better. I feel better. I'm good. Let's go. Oh my god. It's hot It's so hot so tired. I'm so hot, but I'm shivering again. I'm gonna lay down in this mud So dealia was going insane then the museum wired that they weren't gonna be getting any funds anymore The expedition had gone on too long So really they're cut off. So so the museum's like Yeah, I get that you're in Africa. I don't know how you're gonna get back, but We're done. Have you heard about the numbers roosevelt's putting up? 11,400 looking for something like that. He shoots an elephant an hour An hour an hour. He kills an elephant an hour So the ex-leaves sold their small farm to continue It's good. Now it's just another digging into their own now. It's just a matter of principle What started out as a job that should have been a paid salary and Free trips to africa has now turned into him paying for everything retrospect, right? That's why you always have to get paid for your job Soon they did run into a large bull, okay, they shot it, but it did not go down. Mm Then they shot it six more times and still no, okay But then the elephant decided, okay, this is not fun. Then call coughed into its mouth So he decided to charge oh good and they shot it again and it stopped all right and then it started coming again Okay It's the michael mires of elephants. Yeah, it's just not taking no Now both carl and dealia are shooting the elephant small puffs of dust or rise whenever the bullets penetrate its skin He stopped again And he charged again. All right this time carl shot him in the brain and down he went What were the yeah, what were they shooting with with raisins? You're raising gun my god, these are raisins dealia looked at him and said I want to go home and keep house for the rest of my life Fair request fair request, but they didn't okay Things were not the same in africa for dealia as they were for carl. Is she was healthy? When they arrived in a new area drums would announce that a white woman had arrived Normal good to feel that's a good way to feel right Good good feels good. Just one of the people. Oh, so what are those drums saying they say the white woman is here White woman come white woman is all of our white woman. Um carl I'm gonna I'll be in the hammock my love What the fuck is going on? I feel very malaria ish. I'm gonna lie down After the drums would sound villages from all over would come to seek medical attention from oh god You're a doctor. Hello white woman white woman fix me white woman. I have a stump Stump yeah, it's stomp. You do something about stomp. I can't put a limb back on you. Thank you white woman. Okay carl how She had no knowledge of medicine, but would give them what she could the villagers always seemed happy about it Thank you white woman. That's nice though that they were easy. She gave me pills. Yeah I see you again Your eyes were closed It's a miracle Sometime later carl was hunting without dealia on mount kenya He saw the biggest elephant he'd ever seen in his life But he he got his white whale never enough. It's never enough never enough What if you kill a big elephant and then you see a bigger one? You know, I gotta kill that one No, man. I gotta I gotta I mean I'll do that one then I'll go. It's like black chick. Okay. This is my last one. Oh my god. There's a bigger one All right. Okay. I'm down down 50 dollars, but I'll just one more big hit. I'm in baby. I'm in So he and the african dudes were carrying osgira followed the tracks of the beast A rainstorm broke out the rain was intense and driving Carl followed the elephant into a thick wooded area. I'm gonna go ahead and be on record bad call. No, this is fine In no way, it's fine There the crew lost the tracks of the elephant That's by the way real bad. Well, here's the thing about elephants They're considered one of the world's most intelligent species. Wow Elephant brains have more mass than those of any other land animal The elephant's brain is similar to that of humans in terms of structure and complexity So what I'm saying is is the elephant walked into the woods And then slowly backtracked out his own footprints like the kid in the shining in the maze So that's elephants That's what I think happened I am excited to find out what the elephant does Because the huge elephant came charging out of nowhere and hit Carl in the face with its trunk Cutting Carl from ear to ear making him look like the Joker Breaking his nose and knocking him into the mud Jesus One can only assume acley screamed. Oh, it's fucking on. Yeah, right? Yeah, because he then leaped to his feet and he wiped the blood out of his eyes. Okay now. All right. What wait a minute Are we about to get into a man on elephant fight? I don't know Just then the elephant lunged directly at Carl's chest with a tusk He's an elephant Carl Okay Now Carl is obviously seen the matrix movies Because he grabbed a tusk with one hand and then slipped himself between the two tusks He did the old tusk between the tusk zone. He went into the tusk zone. Yeah, total freedom where the elephant's like, mom Not good. It's like the eye of the storm. Yeah, totally. Yeah. Get me, bitch What you gonna do though? It's like god fucking what is this shit? No tusk jumping That's against the rules. Come on. He figured he couldn't be impaled to death when he was in between the two impaley things Fair fair the elephant was like, oh, no, I got other I have other stuff. I I know other things It smashed its entire head down into the mud Jesus slamming Carl into the ground and crushing him with its 24,000 pound elephant head He should have been crushed to death. What do you mean should have been but the tusks Hit something in the ground like stones or roots that stopped them just short of I should have been crushed thin as a wafer if tusks hadn't met that resistance. He said later He said later Meaning yeah, no usually a char usually a charging elephant would gore trample or hurl its victim around its trunk Carl had seen another victim Who an elephant threw down walked on him then squatted and rubbed back and forth Across the body until it was smashed into the ground It's kind of adorable Kind of It's squishy squishy with my butt. Look at him eat throw peanuts But Carl was lucky the crazed elephant Who and its defense had just been strolling around and then got followed by a bunch of assholes. Yeah, the crazed elephant Yeah, uh, the elephants started chasing the african porters around it then ran after the woods and was like Now you know, yeah Now you know, okay. Wow. What did I say to you? I said don't follow me up this shit And what you do but carl the carl should be saying to the elephant now, you know Carl Joker face carl broke a half dozen ribs Jesus Uh, which produced a puncture lung and blacked out from the force of being head butted by an elephant to the ground fair fair fair fair So the native guys looked at carl and were like, oh, he's dead He's dead That's a dead guy Because he was crushed unconscious bloody and just generally fucked over by an elephant. Yep Now members of the swahili Mahudans and the kikku you use Very great tribes will not touch a dead guy. Okay Because of bola Yeah Uh, it was apparently against the religion of touch dead body. They did build a fire though and to warm themselves To work very nice of them to do that and then they left right great. Okay. See you They left carl in a few inches of wet mud Carl woke up five hours later and looked around and was like well, can I get a little help? I got you glass Motherfuckers you blast me All the porters were gone and he was like what the fuck yeah back back at camp Carl's wife dealia was kicking it with the two when two porters came back And told her he was dead Well, that's not really what happened first they came back and walked over the chef And had a casual conversation and laughed a little bit Delia was curious because she knew they were the porters who had gone out with her husband Where's carl they seem to have such a fun conversation Then they leisurely strolled over her and said oh by the way carl's dead and uh, we're all gonna have eggs tonight Just talk to the chef The rest of carl's guides had gone back to their villages. She said she wanted to see the body The porters said We're gonna pass Nice. Yeah, we're good. Yeah. He is the guy and he had the money and stuff Yeah, she then threatened them at gunpoint and told them to take her to the guides. Oh, we'd love to take you Yeah, no no we've always said we wanted to take you. What did you hear? Yeah? No, let's do it So they did the guides however passed on helping They took the porters out into the jungle and then at some point fired three shots into the air Carl responded with three shots of his own They followed the sound and found carl laying in the in the mud Still saying what the fuck hey hey, I thought we had a little help Remember when I said a little help little help Carl was a dreadful sight the elephants trunk had scalped his forehead closed one eye Smashed his nose and tore open one cheek so that it hung down and exposed his teeth Oh Many ribs are many ribs are broken Lung punctured and blood was running out of the corners of his mouth They brought him back to camp The wife knew you wouldn't give up on me. They might die stuff me But I said you are a diaper store ride stuff me move my teeth into my mouth again What are you gonna bring out of the side of my face? Look at me That's fun, right They brought him back to camp and moved into one of the porters tents and he drank an entire bottle of alcohol Some broth and some took some quinine then he passed out When he woke up his wife daily was by his side she'd nursed him back to health over the next three months In the camp so over times a week she had got and hunt birds and antelope another game for Carl to eat That's not gonna help her get away from the cred of being a medicine woman She's done nothing to fight that Oh, don't worry. If you're dead just go to the white lady. She'll touch you Carl was dead. Well Um, sort of not no no a little I mean not at all. He was not dead Yes, you were dead. You died. You died. I see you by Carl See you around When he was healthy again, they set back out on their adventures and went to Uganda They would just take fucking no for an answer. Yeah, no listen with the world this universe is telling you something He's got a plan. He's got an idea His plan should be to go home. Well, he's got shit. He's working on now. He's done. He's already killed the bull um, no, there's more bulls They came across a gigantic crocodile sunning itself on the other side of a river. Okay, okay, okay? So here's what I'm gonna say. Okay. Go ahead. No not leave it be no leave the leave it be Disagree. No, I why would you leave it be? Sunning itself Maybe you don't have one in your museum and maybe that's an okay thing or you only have nine Ah, christ So Carl shot it Then one of his porters dove in and swam across the river to get the crock body But he never made it He was grabbed by another croc that was underwater and quickly chopped him to death Yeah, I mean he really doesn't know how crocodiles operate. I guess they're water based too So Carl was like I can I got this and he did no While shooting at some crocs and his porters beating others away with sticks. He made it across the river But he was like, all right, so that was hard. So I'm gonna take an easier way back So He turned the dead crocodile into a raft and paddled the cross using his rifle just in front of its family Just like a fucking asshole Crazy man coming through. Excuse me. Pardon me. I'm on your dad is a boat Scoochums Oh my god, how you guys on the other side check out what I'm about to do this thing's so great Hey, look at me. I'm on the s.s. Crocodile. I made a boat Just fucking what an asshole So then he brought it back to camp and stuff the shit out of the crocodile just another day at the office Just another day at the motherfucking off unbelievable Soon after returning to camp carl down with Carl came down with malaria now So this is his ninth bout. Oh, he gets malaria every other day. If the days where he doesn't have malaria Let's just call those the days we talk about Dealia once again nurse carl back to health Over a long period now dea and carl had an odd marriage But what about it's odd? Well Just you know, I mean, I think we know a lot about what's odd, but they also didn't have any kids They were childless And it got even odder with the addition of a monkey Um dea became fascinated with monkeys and other primates She would watch them for hours on end at some point she decided communication between primates and humans could be established Not not off She did quite a lot of work in this area and did discover man and primates could communicate It was all going well until one of her porters captured a baby vervet a small monkey Okay, she studied it for a bit and was about to release it back in the wild when she decided she liked it too much and kept it Oh boy, this poor vervet The monkey was named jt Do we know what it stood for? I don't know jane thomas It was a female Dealia vowed to never punish the monkey no matter what it did Weird policy to have No matter what you do no matter what you do. Oh god, it took out my eye mommy still loves you. Where are you? The monkey eventually began eating breakfast with the achles and then sharing a cot with deal yet So this is all good. It's just a fun monkey. Do I have to say anything? It's this is gonna be fine. I don't think it is over time the monkey became aggressive See graduating from nips to full bites on anyone it felt annoyed by I graduated from nips in 98 Great school Going to bites now. You know, I'm actually it bites you JT was uh rewarded with this biting By being brought to Manhattan to live in the achle's apartment. That's it. You've bitten us so much you're going to the big city You'll learn JT you'll learn JT had her own room ate with the family and basically become the couple's only child JT began shredding Dealia's clothes and then anything that wasn't bolted down was destroyed. That's a good boy or girl That's a good girl. Oh, I wish I had to make that policy about well. I can't punish her Oh boy. It's a real shame too because she's a fucking nightmare. What an asshole I wish I could go back on that promise I made to no one. Well, anyway, here we are dying from monkey stabs Dealia became prisoner to the animal at one point not not leaving the apartment for three weeks after a monkey playmate She gave to JT died Here's a friend Oh, man, I just won't go out anymore. No, that's it. I'll stay in with you. I live with you forever. I haven't stayed with you monkey crazy monkey JT grew more wild It pulled tape across with dishes off the table Yeah, rip the curtains flooded the bathroom destroyed the pillows and bit anyone around He was probably just trying to do that magic trick where you just yank the sheet. Yeah Yeah, up until the lab up until the biting anyone around it was just curious George I mean, it's what you'd expect from a wild monkey. Yeah. Oh, it's oh monkeys are wild. Yes. I'm sorry. I should have explained that Yeah, yeah One day the monkey bit Dealia on the ankle She waited three days to call a doctor uh The leg was swollen and infected and required surgery to be saved But Dealia wouldn't leave JT So the surgery had to be performed The surgery had to be performed in the apartment So in other words Dave what you're just trying to tell me Is that the woman who had an infected monkey leg? Uh-huh? Who insisted on having the surgery around the monkey? Uh-huh. Okay. I'll let you know when any red flags pop up And the doctor was like, oh fuck it bit me. Oh god That didn't happen did it? No. Oh my god. I was like so awesome if it did. All right I'm living here too with my weird monkey leg. Okay. You know what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go to the hospital and get surgery Don't JT you'll feel shame You do that to him It took six months for her to recover Duh Dealia stopped going to all social functions and seeing friends to spend all her time caring for the monkey If you can believe this the marriage suffered because of the monkey But why because I don't know wanted to have sex with the vervet. I don't know Then JT bit her wrist horribly near a vein and Carl was done Yeah, okay He arranged to have the monkey sent off to a zoo in washington and quickly shipped the animal I think she's going to hate that Well, you giving up your baby like that not easy and it it that trust me. This is a great baby Yeah, it's a great baby besides tearing arteries out of your arm. I mean, it's just fun to have a monkey and let's fun to have JT That's classic JT. We've always said that Oh JT Always ripping mommy's veins You're late. Blah blah Dealia then volunteered to work for the american forces in france in world war two in 1918 She just up and bailed. She didn't return for over a year. Carl. Carl filed for divorce on grounds of desertion They were divert divorced in 1923. Okay a monkey ended the marriage not just any monkey sweet little JT At some point Carl became obsessed with gorillas Oh god He was amazed by them. No, he invented a portable video camera to tape the beasts Hollywood took to the camera immediately. It was used to shoot all those old newsreel videos. Okay. He fucking imagine the camera Jesus But the gorilla would change Carl Akely's life forever. He killed And stuffed a couple but it felt different than killing other animals In november 1921 Carl was in the belgium congo stalking silver-backed apes What could go wrong normal sentence? It's okay. I'm friends with a monkey. It's okay. My daughter's a vervet I'll show you a picture when I get up that tree Seriously, my daughter's a vervet. See my daughter's a vervet She ended my marriage because she tore my wife's artery out of her arm. She worked to the war. Anyway keep catching up Carl's guide saw a large male silver-back on the other side of a canyon They set out to climb up the other side of the canyon, which was a brutal brutal near vertical climb Okay Carl felt the fever coming on when they set out and by the time they reached the top He was a sweaty feverish mess I Nothing new there Nothing. I don't feel good. Do you want to stop? No, let's go to the top of the cliff I mean at this point they should stop calling malaria malaria and call it Carl Carl's He came down with a horrible case of Carl. Yeah So They clung to trees. They got to the top. They clung to trees nearly hanging over the cliff and they saw the ape A guy took aim and shot striking the beast It fell Directly towards them. Uh, that's not good. The gorilla fell between Carl and the guide just missing taking them down to their deaths But Carl's relief quickly turned to concern as the gorilla catapulted over the first ledge Luckily it stopped at the lip of the canyon snagged on a tree So this is a beautiful sight. This is horrid Carl climbed down to the spot with a porter who held onto his feet as he worked on the gorilla If any of the branches on the tree snapped Carl would fall to his death Using a jackknife Carl cut and tugged away the gorilla's skin He cut out the gorilla's heart and handed it to the porter that he took out the brain and the liver Uh, there's more coming. I'm done. I'm getting all the big pots get a second basket But he felt sick and like he never had before why on that branch skinning that gorilla He severed off the gorilla's head It would be great right after that if he just looked to the sky and went what's it all about Does he cut a gorilla's head off have I made mistakes? What's your plan for me? Oh, this is a weird time for midlife crisis. Boy. I really I really miss jalia. I should get a nice car He kicked the innards off into the canyon below and he worked until his fingernails were loose Which was actually a common part of his trade because arsenic made it difficult to keep one's fingernails more upside Good another perk another perk of a job. Look, I don't have fingernails. Hey, and I look like the joker Do you want to fuck? Yep Then the porters packed up all the bones the skin and the other parts and they headed back to camp They made it just before dark at the camp Carl sat with the gorilla's head in his lap Who's a good boy? Hello, mr. Furry You could put my smelly's mama. What are you doing staring contest? Oh nothing. Just talking to my son head Hey, hey, how you doing girl? girl He felt deeply unsettled that he could see the character in the animal's face This was a first for an animal for him. Okay, he could see the personality in the severed head Most of the personality was like I don't know a little sweet A little yes, it is a little sweet. I mean he's having a moment If he's able to look at a dead gorilla head with some sort of empathy, there's something there, I guess right? We can't fault him entirely. Holy shit. These things are alive. Yeah This thing's got feelings on the journey back to new york carl reevaluated his life He would no longer kill animals and stuff them and put them in museums humans He suddenly saw what he was doing is barbaric. He believed what he was doing was murder Okay, so that's what happens If you cut off the head of a primate and put it in your lap and look at it during dinner or whatever If you just keep if you cut off the head of a ape and then you just keep staring at it Eventually you feel a little weird. However, meanwhile across town, rooseville could be heard shouting pussy Twitter I'd punch that head. I'll eat soup out of that thing's head. Give it to me. I'll drink its skull He spent the rest of his life working for the establishment of a gorilla preserve in the verringas well In 1925 he influenced king albert the first of belgium to establish the albert national park It was africa's first national park while opposed to hunting them for sport or trophies He remained an advocate of collection for scientific and educational purposes So I assuming he's saying once they died of natural causes. Yes, like if The elephant was like heart attack and then it fell over. You'd be like, okay, spare one fair. That one's fair fair That's a fair grab jenzi. Yeah, and you can see the heart exploded so much that a bullet like substance shots Since the national park for gorillas worked out so well Akely then went on to convince roosevelt to set up the american national parks association and establish a ton of national parks and wildlife preserves in the states Including some pretty key parks designed to protect the california redwoods He went from being an avid hunter to one of the world's first environmental conservationists that's fucking nuts In 1926 he returned to the congo to observe gorillas But this time Carl Akely would not return he cut a fever and died at the age of 62 He was buried where he fell near the top of a mountain between two peaks measuring 11 000 feet In elevation 86 years after his death his life's work is still Immaculately preserved in the Akely hall of african mammals at the american museum of natural history in manhattan's upper west side The world of taxidermy and fish carving championships awards gold medallions that bowed carl akely's likeness Based on a photograph he had taken at stymie photography in milwaukee How the fuck was he not stuffed Right, yeah, I mean it's nice that you bury him where he died, but he was so much better to be like yeah Let's put hay in him stuff me. I would say That would mean by my that'd be my dnr. Yeah, do you not resuscitate and stuff stuff? I've always said I wanted to be stuffed. I would love to be stuffed just sitting there in the fucking My wife has to walk by me. I'm just in the corner. Yeah No, well what you want to do is you want to have like you want to be like one of those novelty keychains And you want to have your catchphrases. Oh, yeah, I'm buttons on your channel. My wife walks by just go. Hey girl. Yeah Go giants Go giants I'm gonna go play with fin. I'm gonna go play with fin I love you too, hon. I love you too, hon. You look good. You looking good What smells so good you were dinner or both what smells so good you were dinner or both That's fucking insane. Okay, so it's crazy that so okay, so first his His His infant brothers die and then he becomes a taxidermist because of that I mean, I even forgot about his brother's dying. That's how crazy this is. He marries a woman and they don't have kids So he allows her To bring home a monkey to serve as their child Because he's so fucked up. How is it sounding crazy again? I just learned this shit Yes, he's so fucked up about infant deaths Oh, yeah, he's like, yeah, we'll bring a monkey since we can't have a baby. It's so fucked up beyond words I think I think your words just did a pretty good job And that guy is the the man who started modern day taxidermy. Well, uh, um Pretty speechless after this one That's insane. It's totally normal That is an insane fucking story, Dave. Yeah, so uh everybody wins. Anyway December 1st you and will Uh, I don't think there'll be a small up this week because just too busy That's crazy shit. But you got that one Yeah, I think this should count for two I think that's fair I think that's fair. Yeah. All right. Any last words? Um, boole