 You God you want to look who to do one buck people say this is funny not Gary Gara They've okay someone or something is tickling is it for fun? And this is not gonna come to tickle you quite good. Okay You are Queen fakie of it uptown all hell queen shit of lies though a bunch of religious Virgins go to mingle and do what? My name is David Anthony me with Gary rounds we are doing here if the name my fucking name is Gary What and we're doing something called a small up? Yeah, and my name is Gary Gareth Gary sometime in 1820s France Oh, huh a young couple named Borgley had a son Jules. It's very French right now You will wish Jules Borgley the Borgley family up The toilet once you start saying Borgley the whole every year tongue once or glamourly your tongue just wants to roll around the Borgley The family occupation was wood cutting Construction I I see nothing wrong with what we're doing so far here They were lower-metal class during a time when your social status was incredibly important your family's wealth could determine Your entire future what kind of job you would have who you would marry and if you could go to school You're basically locked in okay Young Jules Borgley met and fell in love with miss a Margaret a la wrong Mmm a la wrong the daughter of a wealthy leather merchant sure so just a woodcutter and a leather family Merchant finally And excited Jules approached Margaret's father to ask for his daughter's hand in marriage Margaret's father was like fuck no okay Mostly due to the fact that Jules from it was from a lower class It was almost like a pig asking to marry his daughter a dirty fucking pig okay easy I think you're getting a little venomous something of that nature. Yeah, I mean, I don't think he's on record with dirty dirty He may have actually been nicer and been in this situation than you yeah, I big Fucking you are all around in the mud you are feisty, and you eat slop It's fucking fucking pig eat your unsloppy pig looking at me fucking dumb eyes Stupid curly up tail Jules and Margaret did not give up, but they pled they begged Jules had sit-downs with The leather merchant and eventually it was decided that Jules would be given the opportunity To work in the family leather business Okay, all he had to do was figure out the trade Be successful, and then he'd be allowed to marry Margaret How can it go wrong seems like a simple hurdle to hop over easy Jules worked hard Good he took to the business and was quickly given more responsibilities. Okay, that's fine. That's a good sign things are looking up That's a good sign for Jules One of those responsibilities was purchasing leather on the open market in 1855 he made a large leather purchase then In just a couple of days the price of leather dropped by 40% It was the night the leather crash. It was the 9-eleven of leather 9-eleven The price dropped to a new breakthrough in the tanning process Before 1855 leather tanning had been done with tree bark and was very difficult work Then the tanning industry discovered a chemical compound that could tan the leather in a lot less time With a lot less physical effort Jules was completely screwed He had not been paying attention to the technology happenings in the industry and because young Jules didn't have his eye on the technology breakthroughs He was stuck with a bunch of leather that could only be sold at a loss Or should I say Margaret's father's business was stuck with the leather? Yeah, he's on the hook. Margaret's father's leather business was ruined. Oh, Jesus. So he's probably not marrying He had a little task and he did not do well Yeah, not good for the planning of the wedding Jules was crushed He was too ashamed to go back to his own family and just started wandering around the old France He just walked around homeless for two years A local doctor took care of his basic knees, but one day Jules disappeared from Lyon and was never seen in the city or the country again He was missing for a few years He was probably wandering around Europe all sad and upset about leather prices Yeah, fucking Lazare In 1862 a man fitting his description showed up in the town and he was in the middle of the city And the description showed up in the town of Harwinton, Connecticut You know it's it's fitting his description that's telling He was just in a crudely stitched leather outfit Had to tow leather from the leather man Covered in loser leather Fuck that's his name. He was called the leather man by those who encountered him I do love that feeling But I just it's so absurd that my mind could connect to it Immediately upon arriving Jules began a 10 miles per day trek between the Connecticut and Hudson Rivers in leather From Harwinton, Connecticut his route took him to Bristol Forestville, Southington Kensington Berlin Middleton And south along the westly side of the Connecticut River to the shore towns. He then traveled west to westchester county In new york. Yeah, he sounds like he's having a good time Coming within a few miles with the Hudson River then back east of Connecticut from Danbury, Connecticut He went north to Milford through Rexbury Woodbury Waterton Play with and back to Harwinton. He did this in one month 365 miles in a month. Holy shit. And then he walked the circle again And again no and again Dave and again Dave and again fuck and over and over and over No, no No People along his journey gave him handouts But he didn't survive like camplets that were like get your shit together enough with the leather Um, occasionally he would be invited to sleep in someone's shed or barn hot, you know, what barn would be good for you Oh more of a barn. What's the house look like the house is the house looks like you guys have nice food in the house That was definitely not good little leather man. I'd love to sleep in that house. I think you'll be good with the goats Okay, the goats would be good too But leather man always chose to sleep outside or in one of his many caves along his journey circle Oh, just I don't know what else to call without any question It's his journey circle or his crazy loop or his sad circle. Whatever it is. He's you can reach me by cave He's just walking in a giant 365 mile circle Sounds fine and good The people along his journey were very curious about him and wanted to know where he came from but leather man only spoke in grunts broken french or with gestures He must now am I fair to assess that none of those are helpful in america? Really he mostly communicated with what was described as a crude pandemi I don't think those two have ever been combined Pantamite my nature is sort of soft not the way this guy was doing it They suck him out dicky fucking bitch His leather suit made him look inhumanly large Like a big leather bigfoot That's who you want doing the crude pantamime big leather bigfoot He was also extremely shy it would look people in the eyes Now wandering vagrants were not surprising during this time america was not in the greatest shape There were land shortages population growth and unstable economy industrialization And westwood migration stretched the country to the breaking point. Can you imagine that nightmare situation? My god living in those conditions This created a large group of men who were just wandering around the country begging or looking for work american folklorists filled with stories of them especially hobos on trains In the 1870s local newspapers more and more frequently made the serious recommendation By editors and letter writers that the solution to the tramp problem Is either to give them poison food. Oh my god To kill them or take them out and shoot them How are those three options? You got three options you can murder them kill them or kill them I like their plan was was their two their their three prong plan was different ways to do it Not if it should be done, you know what we should actually call one a b one You know what I mean one a bc. I think that'll be a little easier. Give them poison food Well, I don't want to kill them. You could take them out and shoot them in the back of the head Sounds like they died just hit them with a goddamn break and break their fucking skull. Okay, so your idea is just kill hobos That's the those are our options fair Dear heartford collar a solution to the tramp problem Poison them and shoot them sincerely larry embra. You're welcome What made the Leatherman unusual and it is his incredible precision in his daily routine for whatever reason that endeared him to people So the fact that he was coming he would literally come around the circle and want every if he went to your house at four Three 34 days ago. He's gonna show up at four again 34 days later. Like he was this crazy Literally what's known as ocd. I've never heard of it I Obvious circle disorder The 1885 Hartford Globe published in 1885 the Hartford Globe published an article describing exactly how punctual the Leatherman was For a hobo. He had a compulsively regular schedule over an enormous territory And this means that on 34 different nights. He slept in 34 different places After his schedule was printed in the 1885 paper. He became somewhat of a celebrity Oh, god He was written about in the new york times and the new york harrell tribune Back then the press was very competitive and they will they would sensationalize story to sell papers Can you imagine that? No, I mean can you imagine that sounds like a very different time? If you fed him and he enjoyed your hospitality, he would show up 34 days later at the same time looking for food again How did he not think he was getting poison hobo food? He just didn't he just he was positive Glass half full kind of hobo. Yeah Bowl of poison food half full He would continue to come back every 34 days unless something frightened him away He's like a fucking stray cat Don't startle him The Leatherman Oh god, he saw a flash. Oh god. Jesus Christ. You might have blown the Leatherman for us. He arrived so regularly Families on the 34th day would have a meal prepared for him when he arrived He would grunt or make appreciative gestures and then quickly move along to keep his tight schedule Two generations of the same family would have known him. He walked for that long So we're talking 30 years. Yeah Like now kids one day you're gonna be feeding the Leatherman yourself You know how to do it now. Don't make any wild gestures or noises Upon arriving for a meal. He would wrap sharply with a stick on the door When the owner opened the door, he would point to his mouth and grunt Well, isn't he delightful? Well, I think somebody's a little hungry. Can we keep him mommy? Can we keep him? After a couple of visits, he wouldn't need to do that anymore He was always served outside at a small table Leatherman. He's so he had like at like everybody's house He had like his own patio restaurant Good lord. I mean honestly like that might be a fair trade at this point to just walk in circles and just get fed a bunch Well, there you are again, I might just go that route. I excuse me. I'm gonna look at my calendar But I do believe it's been 34 days He was not known to bathe regularly and wore the exact same leather outfit for decades That breathes. So like Jim Morrison. It breathes. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, we we've all known for a good smell problem After eating he would be off sometimes he would bow Rainers, I love that. So yeah Good day I'm an asian Leatherman today Oh my god Rain or snow hinder wheat a hinder wheat rain or snow hinder wheat just like the post office eat or wind He ate outside sometimes he'd take a doggie bag to go He loved tobacco Of course the Leatherman did he made pipes out of pieces of tin and hollow reeds His tobacco came from cigar stubs and he would find along his route So he's just picking up we've seen it but he's a hobo. So that's what they're supposed to do. I again, we've seen it Yeah, I'm not those creed if that to me is not a problem with what's happening I'm fine with that wrinkle he'd smoke when he set up his camp at night Occasionally a person would go and sit with him while he smoked they wouldn't say a word Boy, that's a good time. I dare you I fucking dare you to go sit on the log next to the Leatherman. Can you man like how? I Why go there like I'm gonna sit next. I'm not looking him. That's why because there was no tv So what else are you gonna do? You're gonna Larry's gonna be like, I'll fucking go sit next to the god in Leatherman You think I want to see this is a good in there? Oh god damn. I want to smell the Leatherman Smells good. I want to get inside that leather. Just give big whiffs There we go. Oh boy. I'm getting them. I'm getting the spins I'm spinning a little over here. Can't see. Oh god Wow, that's a bad call. He gained fame merchants use photos of the Leatherman to advertise their goods What what good? I guess if they sold leather it makes sense But if it's anything else, it's the craziest shit. But what if it's like enjoy beef jerky Frosted flakes. Hey, you know what Leatherman likes beans Cana beans cana beans sandals brought to you by this lunatic. Look at this nut job How about some apples? Look at this lunatic Dot dot dot. How about some apples? Look a man in a big leather suit. How would you like a hat? Tennis rackets Take a look at this terrible man biscuits gum Brought to you by this smelly freak One woman gave Leatherman a brand new pair of boots to wear but he just took them and cut them up He gave her back the soles and grunted thanks and wanted off. He just took the leather He just took the leather That literally must have been what she said when she walked in the door He was just dying laughing He just what like thanks He just like I'm gonna absorb this into my into my costume. It'll be part of me The soles are not it. I don't need those He had a leather pack also known as a man purse. I think oh, yeah I've seen carried everything you own a knife and a hatchet He made himself a steel pan scissors and ice pick and a french prayer book dated 1844 Well, that's something It was assumed by many that the Leatherman was Roman Catholic He wore a religious medal and carried the prayer book with him and refused to eat meat on Fridays Now I will be having fish Yes, you're talking to a man who cut the soles out of the shoes I follow rules Today it's tilapia. Yeah, and also probably the pope was like is there any way to tell him to stop supporting us? Please please please. I beg if we could just maybe nip this in the butt a little bit. I beg at the Go give him all the leather Some people cross the Leatherman At the quiet house. Well Plymouth, Connecticut a camera was hidden behind a bed sheet while he ate Then the sheet was dropped and a photograph was taken That was the last time Leatherman stopped at the quiet house Take that what is he elephant man people feeding me for free? Just I don't know which way is upright now The person taking that picture of him or him One day in brandford, Connecticut. He stopped at Harding's grocery He ate a loaf of bread a pound of milk crackers a can of sardines a quarter of a pie Two quarts of coffee a gill of brandy and a bottle of beer When he left he went down the road a half mile to the chisney house and ate his usual two court meal Like how the fuck is happening what fucking he's a monster like who can eat that well even if you were starving But that's insane. I don't know if you're starving or you're training. That's like the left side of the menu at denny's Yeah, that's yeah That's what andre the giant consumed But he wasn't a large man. He stood five seven and weighed 160 pounds without the leather Although if you're walking 365 miles, you're gonna be a little little thin little thin down Uh, even though the people treated Leatherman well, they did not trust him. Some people did not treat him kindly People would often try to get him drunk and get him to reveal his past secrets He began to avoid places where he had bad experiences Okay Sweet that happened in new haven Locals came out of the tavern and decided Leatherman would spill his guts if he had some booze in him So they held him down and poured alcohol down his throat. Is there not a quicker like more friendly route than just literally Drowning and waterboarding a man in brandy I don't think so Just be like hey Leatherman brandy not in the 1870s. He just Get a funnel but what kind of person gets forced to drink? I mean you'd be like Oh, I'm shitfaced in the town of forestville. He was thrown into a horse trough This sounds like some of the shine is coming off the allure of Leatherman These incidents caused Leatherman to avoid town centers and he Stuck to country roads and train tracks People became concerned in 1877 when a raw sore appeared on his lip Newspapers across the area reported on his condition. Jesus. Hear ye hear ye Leatherman has a herpes It's like how e news started Leatherman herpes we have more The early winter was very cold The sore was aggravated the skin on his hands face and chest was frostbitten Causing it to become hard and swollen his skin cracked and it was blood But he wouldn't take take help from anyone No, anyway, they would you just like I'm not I'm good. Just give me some biscuits Just let me become a cold. Let me become a walking cold sore. You know what? Do you know what a zombie is? We're headed there. I'm good The people on this 34 day route tried to get him to take lodging but he refused Children followed him and discovered he was living in caves setting fires that warmed the rocks One of the most reported on stories was his arrest in Middletown, Connecticut Leatherman was taken into custody by the Connecticut Humane Society What so the sore on his mouth could be treated? Ugh so an examination proved the sore to be cancerous Ah within an hour he escaped and was back on the move escaped his days were numbered Did he free any other Leatherman from their cages? He picked up a stove and threw it through the wall and then all the Leatherman ran free And that's where there's that song look at the Leatherman run free Look at the that ratchet was like no Everyone was amazed when he survived the great blizzard of night of 1888 Cities were shut down all over the northeast all modes of transportation were halted hundreds died Leatherman was presumed to be a victim of the storm, but He had built a makeshift hut in southern Connecticut and weathered the storm The biggest blizzard of the 19th century only slowed him down by four days. Jesus Leatherman Leatherman On the 9th of December 1888 he came to the home of James Bernard of North Haven He was brought to the fire by the family. He was cold and wet Half the lower lip on his right side was eaten away They gave him coffee and milk and cake and pie. He drank six bowls of coffee six bowls I mean that's that's that's a loaded should we give him a cup now give him the stuff that doggies are Now he's in that lip. Oh good god. Look at this. Give him a bowl. Don't give him a good mugs He put a piece of leather over his lip so he could eat Just Did we even Come on explain what that even means he put he comes he's got the sword It's like so he puts leather over his lip. I mean for fuck's sake Good lord Leatherman I love to be able to talk to him. He seemed grateful. He declined tobacco When he was because his lip had fallen off I got I got some feelings from that. Um, no, I'll just keep my leather mouth When he was warm and hadn't eaten enough he got up to go and left on march 24th 1889 Henry Miller brought his fiance to a cave to show Her where Leatherman stayed when he was in the area. He saw the body of Leatherman Leatherman was dead that marriage was fucking doomed. Yeah Oh This is kind of weird, huh? Oh boy. Uh, I was taking out here for a little fun thing. Anyway, there's a body Want to make out? Oh I was hoping to fuck you The fuck feels like it's out of the question. Yeah, right I'm not gonna get to fuck you right. I feel like a fuck is possible The west gesture county coroner said he died of cancer His death was reported on the front page of the new york sun and the hartford times and many other papers He was buried in olsenang new york in a potter's field He was not buried in his leather outfit a simple iron pipe marked his grave Okay, why wasn't he buried in his leather outfit? Seriously? He I mean, what does he need to put in a fucking will? Yeah, it's pretty clear. He's like happier in Leather. I've got like one thing that I like to wear Just fucking let me die and be buried in it. He was pretty clear in If I walked around my whole life in one suit And you switched suits when I was dead. Yeah I'm upset In 1953 Someone gave him a used headstone with the name jules bugle carved in Okay, it's a used headstone That's how leather man would have wanted it and I saw a video of it So on the front it says his name, but then on the back it someone else's name is like been rubbed off It's like a highlights. You can notice the differences. I didn't know you could get a use it What happened to the was the person not using it anymore? I've been dead so long. Just go ahead and take it So fucking true how like what I don't think Why are there used headstones? Not a lot of people who are like Yeah, you know what you can get rid of that just use the other it's not loose leaf Yeah, go ahead and flip it around flip it around you can right on the back Right on the back scribble out what was on the other side The globe museum in new york purchased the Leatherman's clothing The globe museum from who who the fuck sold it It's nobody's to sell it should be in his coffin the guy who decided that Leatherman didn't want to be buried in his leather So the day he made a moral decision The suit was made of heavy pieces of raw leather estimated to have weighed more than 60 pounds in total Christ holy shit 300 the fucking back pain Oh god, his shoes were made of thick wooden soles nailed to leather The globe museum then dressed a man in the outfit He ran among the crowds at the museum growling. I am hungry. Give me a child to eat So so that guy's a terrible job. So his memory was was secure that guy's worse than the wild man of Borneo Um, he's worse than ufti. I think I want to see them together and I could maybe make a decision I think if I heard ufti gufti. Okay, first of all ufti had to put on tar Horsehair this guy had to put on a suit that a man died in after wearing for 30 years And the the addition imagine the ball smell from the pants the ball smell From the pants also the addition of give me a baby to eat. It's like that's not what Leatherman said Give me a big that's a nice little change. Uh protests from people who knew the Leatherman caused the museum to stop What is maybe the greatest life show ever? The suit has since disappeared His pictures are still found in family albums. So people took pictures of them and they passed them on And now Leatherman is today leather leathermen are completely different Today what today Leathermen are completely different. No, it's fair. Very fair But no one's still strong. No one's happy to these days to see a Leatherman show up looking for food Some people are Dave some people are Hey, you got any apples? Do you want to be fucked? Hey Leatherman here got any apples? This is obsession with apples The idea of advertisers getting behind him knock knock Leatherman here How's your asshole excuse me Leatherman got apples Got any apples Boy, that's crazy. That's the story of the Leatherman There's the greatest video which I can post Yeah, I post it the video is tremendous. It's just it's like a from years ago like a A reenactment. No like a guy like the local Hewington Connecticut station and there's like a big bearded guy walking around And then the Leatherman and he was like that goes to every places He went to the grocery store and it's really fucking awesome. He was obsessed with apples. Yes, really. It's tremendous That's amazing. All right. That's a small good small up. Congrats to everybody. Bye everybody