 You God you want to look who to do one bottle people say this is funny not Gary Gera Okay, someone or something is tickling people is it for fun? And this is not gonna come to tickly quad go yay You are Queen fakie of eight uptown all hell Queen shit of lies though a bunch of religious Virgins go to mingle and do what pray Oh That was recorded That I'm pretty sure that Carmack's suite was picked up at the beginning I just want to say it seems like things are popping over here things are popping car max sold a car to Carmack's and this is something your oh, no, this is from Carmack's okay never mind took a car to trade in the dealer Was like you can have a pile of poop and then we went to Carmack's and they I think we got like 3,000 more This does feel like we're doing a car max commercial anyway check out car max Car max maximum car instead of poop. It's three grand car max 18th 1994 all right. Yeah, you like those 1800s Alexis st. Martin was born in Berthier a village about 40 miles north of Montreal, Canada It's all sounding very normal so far He was third generation Canadian his grandfather having come from Bayonne in southwestern corner of France He was the son of Joseph Pierre but again, that's a terrible name. It's almost close to bidet They invented benign and a mari a Gabu but no more Then these few facts aren't as birth certificate are known of his prior life, okay, so we didn't know anything about him until he Let's just say hit the big time Deserved a dollop he would have been a reality show He would have a huge reality show guy if he was alive today In 1822 Alexis is 28 years old working as a voyager for the American fur company. Okay a voyager Was a traveling porter and canoe man Whose job it was to row the big cargo canoes along rivers and carry both the vessel and its cargo along banks When a waterfall or rapids got in the way, so these are big strapping dudes, right? So yeah, so he basically like he's a waterfall guide or okay. Yeah, he's the man that gets around the waterfalls Just kind of a precarious position. Yeah, it doesn't sound like The fur bundles weighed up to 90 pounds each and voyagers were expected to carry two at a time at least So that's a lot for a canoes man. Yep Hernias were common and frequently caused death Interesting Poppin Hernias caused death. Oh, I think I'm popping. Oh, I guess I'd be in a French accent. Yeah These do you want to try it? Yeah, no you go ahead. Oh man, it's so be popping It's hard. Did you hear pop? It's hurt now. It feels like cold oil is leaking from it It's hard to say pop in French pop. They don't they don't hit the the sounds like that, right? They just make a poop. They roll they roll over consonants more pop I heard they pop Voyagers went in teams and they had their own songs and legends and faced their own special dangers Yeah, they say they meant like individually no What's me song oh god, it's just some artist is like I cannot write any more fucking songs about Larry needs a song Larry Larry In his car, I know That is mad Shit, thank you the song fuck piss St. Martin was passing through a Mackinac Island in 1822 on the day of June the 6th It's always a bad sign when we have the date down True that's never good because it means it's memorable. Yeah, and if something's memorable on this podcast, that's not good The Island lies just off the top of the Mitten of Michigan in Lake Huron. Yeah, Mackinac Island. Yeah, you know it I do know Mackinac. Goddamn right another man on the island that day was William Beaumont Mm-hmm, and this is when I look to see if there's any recognition in your eyes and as usual It's a blank blank slate. There's nothing in there Billy Someday I'll know something Dave hi Beaumont had a very different life than St. Martin the Beaumonts came from England to the American colonies in 1635 William Beaumont's father and paternal uncles all fought in the Revolutionary War After the war his father Samuel Beaumont became a farmer in Lebanon, Connecticut William Beaumont's parents Samuel and LaCrescia was a terrible name. Yeah LaCrescia. Yeah, that's not good No, they had a total of nine children William was their second child He was born in Connecticut on November 21st 1785 Lebanon was then the sixth largest town in Connecticut as a boy William schoolmaster was Silas Fuller who became a medical doctor in Lebanon and served in the war of 1812 as a regimen surgeon and They took 1807 William left Lebanon for Champlain. Huh? It's all happened up. Sure. Yeah, Sam. You like stuff. Yeah Where he became known as the town schoolmaster and served as secretary for the local debating society Cool job. That's a rich guy. That's cool. I'd like to get into debating Really, it's the 1800s. I know it's not it's the 1900s I'm that good. Sorry In early 1809 William began reading under the When we get reading so it's in quotes reading under Dr. Benjamin Moore of Champlain, so Back then there weren't a lot of medical schools in the US so Doc guys who wanted to be doctors would train by reading medical subjects Under the direction of a doctor so it'd be like getting personal school in from a doctor. All right Dr. You're not practicing you're like no, but you're just getting the learning sure Get the learning And then after a while you would apply for an apprenticeship with the doctor All right, so in the spring of 1811 William began his apprenticeship with Dr. Benjamin Chandler and Dr. Truman Powell in Vermont and in June 1812 the third medical society of Vermont approved William to practice Physic and surgery. Physic So it says sure physical surgery physics. Yep, you are now ready to physics There's you can't use physics Just one concept just one that's physics. You get one physics. That's one physics per life. Use it. Well On September 13 1812 at the age of 26. Dr. William Beaumont enlisted as a surgeon's mate in the US Army Surgeons mate. Yep. He was stationed in Plattsburgh, New York Soldiers sometimes slept outdoors without shelter quite miserable during a wet winter and windy winter It was common for the soldiers to come down with dysentery plurisy pneumonia sore throats and rheumatism just like a sore throats is on there dying a little raspy voice Boma was proud of the fact that not one of his 200 plus cases died. So he's rolling. Is he okay? Yeah, so he's a hot doc. He's a hot doc. He's a hot doc coming through Beaumont saw his first action in the war of 1812 in April 1813 the 6th Regiment led the charge at York and the British retreated while blowing up the main magazine the explosion Caused heavy casualties and injuries Beaumont and other surges were amputating arms and legs for two days straight So you got a little experience in the ER I mean could where's a better place to cut your teeth than the battlefield of the Civil War? I mean it was just okay. Let's cut it off. Find a guy who's okay. Yeah, like buddy. This is a miracle You know they made people okay cut it off. Oh, yeah, always. We're gonna cut all of them off all four So we're just gonna cut them in half Look the bottom of you is broken. So we're gonna cut you right in the middle So we're gonna cut you right in the middle. So we're gonna put wheels on your torso And you'll be able to kind of pedal around with your hands bite down on this grape. You'll be the flag holder You'll hold the flag and we're just gonna plant that in your shoulder. There you go. Stay there bud After the war ended Beaumont left the army and in June 1815 he began private practice in Plattsburgh, New York Where he met his future wife Deborah. Oh sweet. See? See? It's all it's all happening. I don't listen I'll tell you what what I like is that we're changing it up and we're just doing a sweet story about a kid It's a kid who's just doing well. Yep. Yep But huh he re-entered the army in December of 1819 so clearly the private practice didn't work out. It's a shame This time as a post surgeon he was sent to Fort Macanac on Macanac Island in Lake Huron Macanac Island served us the home for a US Army Fort at that time, okay? The hospital was then in a converted storehouse that Beaumont described as holy unfit unsupportably cold and smoky in winter and Open to every shower in the summer when patients beds had to be moved to avoid being rained on Ah, so that seems like a weird Way to have a hospital. Miss the private practice, right? What about a roof? Good Hey, did anybody think about a roof for the hospital? It's really hurting a lot of the sick people. They had They had a story a shortage of medical supplies and didn't even have a thermometer for months. That's good for months That's good. I can't tell if he's hot Well, he's dead so I think we're okay on this one the temperatures gone down. Yeah, he's really cold Yeah, I feel it's cold You know what they all feel really cold. Oh my god, the roof's open there dad. There's no roof They're all dead there is no roof. Hey August 1821 Beaumont married Deborah. Mm-hmm finally finally getting laid Then came that that's true, right? Yeah Pining get to put it in I'm like 40 and I'm done then came the fateful day on Macanac Island June 6th 1822 The American fur company store was bustling with voyagers and Indians and clerks in the morning St. Martin was standing in the store another man was standing near him holding a shotgun loaded for duck hunting The muzzle was not over three feet from St. Martin according to an eyewitness. Hmm. That's a weird way of putting it Yeah, yeah, it accidentally fired the whole charge entering the side of Martin's chest The wadding and pieces of clothing entered along with the tiny lead pellets He fell to the floor with his shirt catching on fire and everyone there believed St. Martin was as good as dead Well, not me William Beaumont There he is came quickly He examined the hand-sized wound with the edge of a burnt lung protruding from it Ah, right his lung is sticking out. It's Burning it burned already. It cooked. It's a little bit of a cooked lung Okay, I have faith in our I have faith in Beaumont. Yeah Burning lung outside the body is hard for me to Okay Can I eat that? Yeah, I mean it's mine. Can I eat it? Someone get the bacon off his chest. We quickly oh god Oh god, that's him. That's not bacon. It smells delicious, but that's that's him. Oh What do we do if he dies we eat it right if we die if he dies we go get bacon Beaumont later described this in his own words The wound was received just under the left breast and supposed at the time to have been mortal a large portion of the side Was blown off the ribs fractured and openings made into the cavities of the chest and abdomen Through which protruded portions of the lungs and stomach much lacerated and burnt Exhibiting altogether an appalling and hopeless case the diaphragm was lacerated and a perforation Made directly into the cavity of the stomach through which breakfast food was escaping What eggs Well eggs Last part the most disturbing who had biscuits you had biscuits now listen If we get out of here alive, I need you to tell me where you got such a yummy breakfast. Where did you get that? those hash browns John Claude's So what an asshole by the way, but whoever this guy is who just shot his we never hear about that guy again But yeah, I was just hanging out just holding this gun just hanging out with you know finger on the trigger sprays him Oh, it's gonna be good day for gun boom. Oh, that's a fiery lung Um, so I guess my bad Beaumont told the person assisting him that the man cannot live for 36 hours I will come and see him by and by he then the clean the wound as best he could Clips off a bit of rib with his pen knife to use the lung to ease the lung back inside So he he had to cut yeah Yeah, yeah to get the lung back in he had to cut all right. I'm just gonna clip your ribs so I can push your lung inside you ah Then he applied a poteese. You know what that is. It's a yes It's a stuffed duck. There you go everyone a surprise when Saint Martin did not die Yeah, me too a day later He struggled to survive pneumonia and fever set in Beaumont blood Saint Martin then administered a cathartic That's something that cleans out the one yeah The cathartic spilled out of the hole in his stomach. Hey here it comes More breakfast any food that went in also came out of the stomach hole Oh God here have this oh, I'll have it I'll eat that you're not gonna finish that I know if you just I mean shoots right through you like a slide Look at that. Hey look at this. It's like a sausage thing. What's this? It's like a sausage trick like I put it in here Oh Come back there Barry get on your knees and put your mouth right at his stomach hole I'm gonna drop a sausage it's gonna be adorable catch it There you go look at that. Oh, it's good. Oh, he's dead tastes a little bit like Saint Martin So They fed Saint Martin through anal injections for two weeks Okay Okay, now this is back in a time when it's not like the head say lead or whatever they needed no or some sort of They didn't have a blender. They didn't have anything that would I mean what were they shooting broth up there or like a ham What do you put in my ass it's am it's ham all right me put that sandwich between his ass cheeks I'm gonna give it a running kick so Yeah, so they just decided to put it in the backwards feed him Saint Martin at this point is probably like it's cool man at this point. Just let me die Have you heard about butthole feeding feed you through your ass? I'm pretty sure this will work because here's what I know about the body There's two holes usually food goes in one and comes out the other But that means they both go to the same place right this guy's got a third hole which is trouble So what we're gonna do is we're gonna throw the Hail Mary and put food up his asshole Who's again it? I'm not only for it, but I have this corn here All right, is your ass hungry time to eat follow the little plane After 17 days the wound was healed enough for the hole to be bandaged By the fourth week Saint Martins was evening eating heartily digesting and shitting like a boss By December Saint Martin miraculously is on the mend with one exception He only likes to eat through his ass the hole in his stomach has not closed And it defies all Beaumont's attempts to seal it Beaumont writes By the adhesion on the sides of the protruded portion of the stomach to the plural cosettiles Costalus sure yeah, does it matter when we get to words like that on the dollop? We just roll through them and hope that it all worked out. I won't be busting anybody right and the external wound a free exit was afforded to its contents and Thereby a fusion into the abdominal cavity prevented the stomach became more firmly attached to the plura and And enter costals by its external coat but showed not the least disposition to close its orifice By granulations which terminated as if at a natural bounty and left the perforation resembling In all but a sphincter the natural anus with a slight prolapsus Wait, wait, wait, I'm sorry Do you want to tell me or should I guess what's happening? Here's what happened? Because it the It sounds yeah, like I'm about to hear something amazing If it if what you just said is what I think it is He has a side asshole. He has a second stomach asshole. I Think that's pretty close What he's saying is that the hole in the stomach Attached itself to the hole in the side of his body. Ah, and then it just stayed that way So there's like a hole that goes from the side of his body into his stomach so he has Another route. I mean like a legit route. Yeah. He's got it like a second route He could go into bars and go gentlemen. I can eat this steak Without using my mouth and everything. I will bet you 50 dollars You cannot then he'd pull up a shirt and just start shoving steak in there. That's what he can do. Oh my god He never did that but that would be a match Idea if he was alive today. He would be in like a Quiznos commercial. Oh, yeah. Yeah The only food for side mouth That's this is what's known as a permanent gastric fistula permanent permanent Beaumont thought it was a good Because the food didn't spill out of the body cavity were into the body cavity where it didn't belong So the food that was coming out wouldn't just roll around in his body. It would come out the hole Right so if he ate food That wasn't digested it would come out the so was that good well because it's not rolling around in the body and rotting It's like oh, so wait, so his body's not like his torsos not like a garbage dump. So he's arguably yeah He's not cop healthier. He's not composting in his torso. Oh, wow. So it's time for us all to get these the Kardashians I have belly ass holes at no time He's been like all the compost the perforation He added was about the size of a shilling piece and the food and drinks continually excluded Unless prevented by a plug compressor band wait wait wait So he would be drinking water and he would be like a fucking cartoon that got shot Yes, like it would just squirt out unless he corked it. That's correct And Beaumont is still pushing this advantage story It was a long recovery During the fourth month Beaumont was still removing pieces of gun-wadding and shot from the abscesses around the wound The doctors journal described many operations he performed on the chest to remove unstable pieces of ribs and cartilage. Oh Ah still yeah after about 10 months st. Martin's wounds were partially healed But he was still an object of miserable and helpless according to Beaumont St. Martin was then declared a common popper by the civil authorities of the country That's not very nice of them. Do you know what that is being of English blood? Yes He's just a shithead basically they're describing you as a pile of shit Yeah, and you're and then like the government has to take care of you. You can't take care of yourself Well, when you're corking your second belly asshole This man is now garbage. Yeah, I mean he was just like right declaration of the government this man is human garbage This is a legal shithead The authorities decided that because they were neither able or required to look after him They would send him home to his birthplace at a distance at a distance of more than 1500 miles So they were like fuckers get this pile of human garbage out of here send him back to the place he began He's like now. This is where I cut my asshole your Fault people that brought left him bring him here. Whatever wherever he started. It's your fault It's time for him to go home and tell everyone the good news. I am three-hold man. I have three options Yes, so that's what they would do They would like not our business and they send him off and to die wherever he was so nice and understanding Dr. Beaumont believed that the St. Martins would be killed by the long journey home. So He sort of adopted St. Martin. God He took the recovering a voyager into his home as a chore boy to prevent the mechanic authorities from transporting him back to Quebec Okay, that's nice. It's very sweet When you're after the accident, I'm still dealing with the second asshole. There's just so you know I can tell you the second asshole is gonna become more of the story One year after the accident the injured parts were all healed with the exception of the hole in the stomach inside The hole was obviously a bummer for St. Martin, but for bummer bummer For Beaumont the hole was an opportunity I mean We better be talking medically The only live once right Beaumont I can put the purple part in I've got a plug for you St. Martin were you sleeping in that girl? Oh Yeah, thank God, and I went to prison, right? Yeah The whole my God a prisoner be like meet meet our wife meet our wife The hole was about two and a half inches in circumference He could look through the hole into the living stomach Beaumont couldn't believe his luck He wasn't he's a fucked up guy if in this situation. He can't believe his luck. This is awesome Oh, what have I I must have done something right in another life You rica He was encouraged through letters from his friend army surgeon general Joseph Lovell Beaumont began experimenting on St. Martin's stomach on Mackinac Island in 1823 he was spooning in food then siphoning it out again He attached meat to his string well, he's fishing dangled it through the hole and pulled it out for observation So basically at this point He's just like we have an opportunity to really study what the stomach does and he's just fucking throwing Flossed the meat into his stomach and yanking it out. St. Martin is like, why didn't you let me die? Hold on This is gonna be really weird Let's meet it. Oh, yeah, I'm so full man. I'm so If not for the stomach wound Beaumont and St. Martin would never have met Officers and might have been a good thing Officers and the voyage ears lived in separate social spheres on the island army officers mixed with the islands elite while the voyage Hears spent their brief time on the island camped along the beach and frequenting the village saloons and gambling halls So this is like a clash of yes classes and people right Beaumont saw St. Martin is some kind of party animal Completely worthless except for what his stomach could do for science. What a great life Letters the doctrine often referred to his patient as the villain ah The drunkard and the ungrateful wouldn't you get fucking shit-faced if your only purpose in life was to have a doctor study your second stomach asshole Be fucked drunk all the time. I'd be like Villain come here. No, I'm why I want to put this beat. No, no Fine and letters the doctrine over here said that and when St. Martin left Beaumont wants to go back to Canada because he's missed His wife and children Beaumont wrote that his subject absconded In eight in April 1824 almost two years after the shotgun incident St. Martin was promoted from Beaumont's patient to his employee. Oh great He worked a certain how a hired villain He worked a sort of a house man performing all kinds of labor From that of a house servant to chopping wood to mowing the field during his first five months on duty the doctor noted He did not have a day's sickness sufficient to disqualify him from his ordinary duties And a hole in his side. Well, I mean aside from that He's perfectly normal and fine St. Martin had no complaints of pain and no inconvenience except for applying the compresses over the whole and except for my doctor Friend keeps putting meat inside of their own strings and yanking it out. If I've got a big gripe It's that this man keeps fish feeding me invites friends over wait until it's Properly cooked in this man's stomach and then we'll diet on it Stomach food here we go. I've put fondue inside of his hole. We're gonna have a fondue party inside of him Whenever he took off the dressing his last meal would pour out Oh fuck I forgot about that up chili. No boy. That's everywhere. Sorry. I had corked early I got chili on the rug my bad. I had cork too soon imagine Seeing that no Boy, that's everywhere. It's horrifying. Oh boy So he had to keep the compress on while he's cleaning up around the doctor's house or Tending to the cordwood. Meanwhile, Beaumont was falling in love with the hole in an article Oh boy in an article Beaumont published in the American Medical Recorder in 1825 He closes on an optimistic note This case affords a most excellent opportunity of experimenting upon the gastric fluids and the progest of digestion It would give no pain nor cause the least uneasiness to extract a gill of fluid every two or three days for it frequently flows out spontaneously in considerable quantities and one might introduce various digestible substances into the stomach and easily Examine them during the whole process of digestion. I may therefore be able hereafter to give some interesting experiments on this subject Imagine if St. Martin accidentally like found that quote. He's like, excuse me. What the hell is that about? Oh He couldn't read them. He's talking about it like it's oil He's not even talking about him like he's a person. No, he's talking about it like he struck oil Yes, yeah, and so he if a gill is four ounces So he can take he says he can just take four ounces of stomach fluid and he could just drop in other fluids when he wants swap them in and out Meanwhile, St. Martin's just like, uh, here's some syrup. You know what I regret is when that guy shot me In retrospect, yeah, I'm thinking I wish I had that guy had in a shot me, you know now looking back. No, I can't go swimming He's just like dolphins are becoming up like sniffing his wound like where's he from? Alright, I can swim on my side No, he's just got to do like the whale shoot out of water every now and then just like Beaumont showed a little concern for St. Martin's physical or emotional well-being throughout the experiments St. Martin felt lightheaded nauseous and Consipated with a headache as Beaumont freely placed objects of questionable sterility Including thermometers and spoons My god, well this is here. Questionable sterility. This is here I'm gonna you mind if I put this fork in there. Why I don't know it's here open up. I'm gonna brush your stomach There we go. Hit those teeth No stand there, I'm gonna throw pebbles in all right now missed Got it. All right. I'm gonna spit some tobacco in there now see what that does I'm gonna make it chew gum. Oh Fuck it's so horrible awful At the same time St. Martin was ridiculed by his peers over his freakish stomach So he's getting the best of both. He's getting it all on both ends He's getting the shocking the guy with two assholes getting it on both a guy that treats him worse than like a couch Yeah, and then on the other side people like hey Stomach hole. He's like I'm told I'm a I'm a medical miracle at home. Yeah, well I hear you just a fucking freak now Oh take your cork out so we can see what you last chewed a porpoise man in 1825 Beaumont was stationed at Fort Niagara. He brought St. Martin with him there Beaumont tied Quarter ounce pieces of food to the end of a silk string and dangled the food through the hole into St. Martin's stomach Oh my god, the food items were high seasoned alamode beef salted lean beef What is he doing raw salted fat pork raw lean fresh beef boiled corned beef Stale bread and raw cabbage. What a fucking I mean really at this point what can be gained from what he's doing He doesn't need to know every type of different me what it will do inside of this guy's fucking second stomach anus every single thing It's a red flag after meat was placed in St. Martin went back to his household duties Beaumont pulled out the string one two and Three hours later to observe the rate of digestion for different foods although Five hours after he first put the food into St. Martin's stomach Beaumont removed the pleat pieces because St. Martin was suffering from stomach distress The next I wonder why the next day he's still at indigestion. Yeah, I fucking did Yeah, I have a piece of what a nightmare This is like a twilight you are under my employee so I will put meats in your side So I will just be now putting meats inside of your stomach and would you clean the The office and I'm going to put this pork in your side I'll do me a favor and dust dust the table and shake out all the rugs and let me put this prosciutto inside you with my finger I'm going to put a live bird in you lobster claw Pig foot we just invented salsa I Opinion pepper my penis my fist On August 1825 Beaumont had St. Martin fast for 17 hours And then he removed the gastric juice from St. Martin's stomach He observed the rate of digestion from a piece of corned be boiled beef Test tube style while he also plays the same size piece of meat directly into St. Martin's stomach The stomach digested the meat in two hours the vial of gastric juice took ten hours What a great fact we've learned The next day Beaumont repeated the experiments using chicken which he found Digested slower than the beef the experiments show that gastric juice needed heat to function It's weird when you take something out of the body. It doesn't work as well shocking. What a great Great lesson. I'm now going to take out your eyeball and see if it can look around the room when it's on the floor But first let's put some ham inside you see what that does Beaumont's experiments settled a scientific debate on both sides of the Atlantic Over the nature of digestion until Beaumont published his observations in his books Experiments and observations on the gastric juice of the physiology of digestion but great title Killing a guy named st. Martin, but how is that not a movie? That's a great title for a movie What are you going to see? Experiments and observations of the gastric juice and the physiological of digestion starring Matt Damon and Richard gear Most scientists believe that digestion was either mechanical or chemical the first attributed digestion to a Grinding in the stomach to latter two solvent properties of gastric juice. So Beaumont proved once and for all that gestion in the stomach was chemical so there great experiments Paid off for something. We didn't really need to know. Yeah, bingo a product Mostly of the gastric juice itself, which Beaumont surmised was completely Was composed largely of hydrochloric acid? So he thought that the stomach was made of a hydrochloric acid The discovery lifted the doctor from obscurity and he became seen as the father father of American physiology Well, I think I have a different name for you Hole master the father of stomach fondue. Oh master What the fuck call me hole master and he and he's now famous now He's out of obscurity now meanwhile st. Martin is walking around with a fucking whiskey cork in his stomach get away from that man's hole It's mine Don't even look at it. I'm dr. Beaumont. Hello. Keep it up the hole. This is villain the man with a stomach asshole He's quite a dick for having a hole in his side. He's real. Hey guys I'll tell you one of his pet peeves is shoving chicken in his stomach weird about it To accommodate his experiments Beaumont schemed various ways to keep st. Martin close at hand But in September st. Martin returned home to Canada so Beaumont was unable to experiment on him further at this time Thank God St. Martin got married and had three children So there was a lady out there that was like I don't care if you know a hole. Yeah, I love you the way you are I want to settle down so bad. Yes. Oh god. Let's not eat before we fuck Oh, you're corks out. You're corks out. Oh, you're fucking corks out. Oh my god. Jesus put the cork back in. Good lord. What did you eat? Oh? We'll finish but my god In 1826 Beaumont was assigned to Fort Howard Green Bay Which was then in Michigan territory the medical problems he saw at Fort Howard included fevers diarrhea dysentery and rheumatism Beaumont connected the health issues with the sudden changes in weather Cold weather hot weather that turned the water bad damp weather etc Beaumont thought that the numerous wounds and sprains he saw were caused by alcohol abuse as Soldiers in those days were rationed an entire gill of whiskey per day by the government To do gills a day if a soldier was on manual labor For ten days or more. Can we just at least say that we used to take better care of our veterans? More than we do now that's four ounces of booze a day or eight if they're working hard government sanctioned booze That's fucking awesome as a doctor. You need whiskey But he is one of the guys who have stopped it because the the the military stopped the whiskey ration in 1830 So he was saying everyone's getting injured because the drunk yeah, and then they took them off the ration because this guy's a douchebag I'm sure I bet yeah, I think that went over real well In 1828 dr. Beaumont was transferred to the fifth regiments headquarters in st. Louis, Missouri But while he was headed to st. Louis He stopped at Fort Crawford in Prairie do Shane, Wisconsin. I say that right sure. Yeah, pray to Shane No, yeah sure pray to Shane. He said it a little bit different to Shane, but I did do Shane prayer to Shane You nailed it David The commander of Fort Crawford ordered Beaumont to stay so their medical officer could go on leave so he gets there He's stopping by he's like hello. I'd like to see the fort. They're like you're staying here for a while Yeah, and Jeff is going out on a vacay. That's why you don't do poppins. Yeah, don't do a poppin poppin No poppins in 1828 bad move the stopover ended up lasting four years. Oh, that's cool So he really didn't have much on the horizon, huh? Fort Crawford's biggest medical problem was malaria in 1830 almost 75% of the forts troops had malaria Oh, it was at Fort Crawford where dr. Beaumont became a lifelong friendship with Captain Ethan Allen Hitchcock whose grandfather was the famous Revolutionary War hero Ethan Allen of Vermont Ethan Allen also great suits. So he's rolling in in the high swing and circles. Yeah Yeah In Canada, St. Martin took up his old profession in furs with another firm Okay, he stayed in Canada for four years until Dr. Beaumont traced him through agents of his former employer The American fur company the agents hired St. Martin on Beaumont's behalf and Transported him and his wife and children all the way to Fort Crawford about 2,000 miles away by boat. Nope They arrived there in 1829 August and the doctor happily observed that no change in the hole had developed during the time His precious hole was away. Oh my god My whole back. Hey, I'm back. Hello darling I love my hole. I'm here. Say hi to me I wish that top hole would shut up so I could just talk to the hole that really matters I wish this hole was connected to a better man. Can you imagine? What a night like good news dr. Beaumont has summoned you Hey, honey, there's something I should tell you So before we met I was sort of a stomach rat. I was kind of a meat locker for a doctor And he wanted me back and now you me and the kids who are probably having a tough time at school because their father has a Second anus right are gonna go see him. It's gonna be great. You love him It's like a vacation where someone puts meat in my side. It's like a vacation, but a living nightmare The St. Martin family remained at Fort Crawford for almost two years and had their fourth child there The second series of experiments was performed under the same arrangement as before was St. Martin as the general servant and The human guinea pig of them of Beaumont Beaumont experimented determine if there was any relation between digestion and weather. Oh Well, I mean now he's just fucking bored. I Mean seriously Does does digestion affect migratory patterns? Let's put some foul inside of your stomach gash With the weather I Needed you here because I was wondering if what someone ate and changed the weather. It's cloudy out. How do you think you'll digest pasta? Have this sir loin there's a nor'easter coming By observing St. Martin on different days and times and in various Weather conditions Beaumont saw that dry weather increases stomach temperature and human weather lowers it because he has a hole in his side Yeah, who gives a fuck regardless who get like no shit Beaumont used more variety of food samples while at Fort Crawford. That's the last thing he needs as a sampler player Sliders mozzarella sticks Jalapeno poppers what won't fuck up this stomach? He found the vegetables are less digestible than other foods and Milk coagulates before the digestive process something St. Martin was glad he found out inside of his stomach St. Martin sometimes became irritable doing the experiment. What a bitch It was actually stressful for him to have food or move for his stomach. It was stressful. Was it it was apparently this is gonna sound weird It's it's it's painful and irritating if a guy pulls food out of your stomach on a string I'm just not seeing it. I'm not I'm not I think he's being a little bit of a baby Beaumont observed boom What you're about to say something great Beaumont observed that being angry can hinder one's digestion So so St. Martin is fucking pissed that he's like, you know, I will say this It's fascinating what your anger does to digestion. He's like enough with the digestion shit. Oh god It was at Fort Crawford that an incident occurred between St. Martin's brother Etienne St. Martin and Charlie Charette Charlie had been teasing and ridiculing quote the man with a lid on his stomach What did you yeah as a comic? Yeah Etienne then stabbed Charlie wounding him quite severely and swore that he would kill the whole brigade if they didn't lay off his brother Wait, he stabbed him. Yeah, I stabbed the guy was making in the stomach. Well, yeah He's why I would have stabbed him in the stomach the guy making fun of my brother, right? Here's a hole for you I'm just I'm just I'm just hoping that That in some in some dimension that caused an asshole on that guy's stomach Everybody everybody got stabbed after 1822 got a If you were mean about St. Martin and you got stabbed you got a stomach asshole You got a tumble in April 1831 St. Martin and his family left for their home in Canada traveling by canoe Or portage all the way to Montreal the reason for the second departure was Miss St. Martin's homesickness and discontent Probably because a guy was fishing in her stomach She's right in her stomach. Why are you okay with this? We should go in my opinion Do you have any self-esteem whatsoever? I married you and I didn't think I married a man who just thought he was a hole Sorry, honey, he's gotta go takes a bacon on it All right, you hold that thought This guy's gonna take the fish out and then I will be right back to put a pin in that He's gonna take a full fish out of me then we can go Mmm when St. Martin left Beaumont proudly described the method Showing as a way of showing the completeness of his recovery So the way that he got back home he thought if he was able to Travel all that distance by boat and and whatever else that that proved that he was he had saved this man So it's all about him again. Yeah, it means sounds like a great guy St. Martin took his family in an open canoe via the Mississippi passing St. Louis is sending the Ohio To the lakes and descending the Erie in Ontario and the River St. Laura's to Montreal where they arrived in June Lovely, that's a long trip. Yeah, especially when you have a hole in your stomach That has a cork in it, but Beaumont was not happy about st. Martin leaving again And in later years Beaumont reminded his subject of quote the embarrassment and interruption that have occurred Here to for to the prosecution of my experiments upon you on account of having your family with you You know, your wife became so discontented and determined to go back that you were obliged to yield to her and disappoint me I realize that you have a family, but I'm putting things in the side of you What is more important? How do you even make that argument? He's mad at the wife because she was like Shit in my husband. Oh here we go. No, no, no, no, no, no Oh what next thing you're gonna tell me is that he's a human being Boy, I'll tell you ever since you got Yoko involved things have been a little bit different around here When he met that wife he wasn't like what I like this at all She seems to have a real problem with me putting me inside this hole You better not tell him it's horrible Okay, I'm gonna put quail in here. Don't tell your wife this time. All right, I'm gonna try to cook a frying egg inside Of your stomach. Don't be weird and tell the missus Did I mention that St. Martin was an illiterate French Canadian doctor? Boma did not speak French This whole time they had no way of communicating Unless there's an interpreter there Well, I guess when you speak the language of asshole It's got a universal in late 1832 Beaumont took leave from the army in order to conduct further experiments on the digestive system He found st. Martin good news. I'm coming back. He thought I'll come to you this time He found st. Martin in October and talked him into coming back Oh my god, st. Martin was very very poor with a family to support so he couldn't refuse the money Beaumont offered Wow, that's just precarious position to be in it is a feel-good story. Yeah, yep On October 16th 1832 st. Martin signed a contract for a one-year term at a hundred and fifty dollars plus food and lodging Yeah, well the food that's a real gray area Dipping it inside you when you don't want it in you. Oh god, I should have stipulated in the contract that the food goes in my mouth Oh, no fine print illiteracy language barriers St. Martin agreed to follow the doctor wherever he might go anywhere in the world Beaumont dropped off his wife Deborah and children in Plattsburg with Deborah's family and then traveled with st. Martin to Washington, DC So it's just the two of them alone now life on the road Beaumont made his use of his friendship with search in general Joseph LaValle To have st. Martin enrolled in the US Army in 1833 as a sergeant He would receive 12 $12 per month and his only duty was to make himself available to dr. Beaumont as an experimental subject so like honestly Like oof-dee-goof-dee be like I'm good. Oh It's great to be poor I'm a sergeant Just make sure his only job is when I want to put food inside of his stomach I can't and then maybe he tries to leave I can say he's a wall and arrest him Hey food hole come here. Come here. Oh, and I didn't just call him sergeant hole villain Here boy St. Martin's responsibilities to the army were never taken seriously by anyone higher low the enlistment I wonder why the enlistment records state that he was five feet five inches in height which actually was tall for them Okay, in Washington Beaumont again tried different foods with St. Martin including Raw oysters. Oh my god sausage mutton mutton and boiled salted fat pork Beaumont focused on gastric juice. Sometimes he put food directly into the stomach once he put in 12 raw oysters Is he like in an all-you-can-eat place? I wonder if he like threw them or if he placed them in gently if he No, he probably like maybe he probably like put a little Tabasco in each one a little lemon and then shot it in one by one Just like the foot You want to you want to corona with that? Is there is anything new being gained from this fuck? I mean, I can't tell it seems like at some point you've learned all that you can learn from the stomach oracle Well, apparently not well about oysters. Yeah, no, I mean okay, so now we're on the oysters oysters take longer to digest I have a wife. I have kids. Oh Sergeant Hall come here. He observed that exercise helped the production and release of gastric juice Now you got to go running for him from Beaumont's records It became apparent that the relationship between the two men did not flourish Why St. Martin was drinking heavily and was angry and impatient moods that showed up in his digestion You know that really affects your digestion fuck yo, yeah, son of a bitch get fucking with me Beaumont's insensitivity towards st. Martin was typical of the age the rich did not treat the poor with any sort of respect St. Martin signed a second contract on November 7th 1833 it paid him a rate of 400 and the term to follow the doctor Anywhere in the world was for two years. Oh my god So enough the contract was signed the doctor was transferred to Jefferson Barracks, Missouri Before leaving Beaumont went shopping in the capital for scientific books to bring along to the frontier And he arranged for st. Martin to meet him in Plattsburgh after taking a short leave of absence The Canadian never appeared good St. Martin's disappearing act came at a very embarrassing moment for Beaumont Yeah poor Beaumont because he had been approaching the US Congress for research funding and trying to arrange for demonstrations in major cities On both sides of the Atlantic and it all depended on the use of st. Martin and his wonderful hole Yeah, he was gonna take him on like a tour. Yeah a great tour fucking whole tour. Yep Yeah, who wants to put me in five cents now? What would you rather see Courtney loves band or that? Hey, I I brought a pair from my house is it can I absolutely? Yeah, we do an audience participation thing at the end where you guys can just throw Whatever you want Just give me a second Let me do my spiel and then I'll start taking some questions and at the end We'll do a signing and then we'll do a thing where anyone can just put whatever they want the whole okay This is a hood ornament. That's fine. Yeah, but no whatever. I he doesn't have any feelings. He's not a human man Oh, perfect. Yeah. Yeah, he's just what is he is he poor? He's very poor. Yeah, and I can just put whatever I want whatever you want No money though. Nice to be rich In mid April 1833 Beaumont went to Plattsburgh New York where he was reunited with his family and began work on Publishing his observations in a book. This is when he published the book So for all these years he published experiments and observations on the gastric juice and the physiology of divestion digestion It contains some 240 experiments all performed on st. Martin's stomach and earning the army surgeon prestige He worked with st. Martin and proved that digestion was a chemical process ending a debate on this matter which dated from the earliest annuals of medicine in 1835 He was appointed the medical officer of the st. Louis arsenal. He remained there until his death in 1853 resigning his commission in 1840 he lived on a farm outside the city and was very active in medical societies in the region a Number of letters survived Beaumont. They covered the next two decades as Beaumont tried Unsuccessfully to lure st. Martin to his home in st. Louis for more experiments. I've got some fish paste. I'll put candy in there In 1843 Letter to Beaumont st. Martin explains his unwillingness to travel I'm blaming it on travel. I have not forgotten you. I have had some sickness in my family I lost two of my children and one was unwell myself for the best part of a year Blah blah blah blah family blah blah blah Where's my home? Every morning I wake up and I miss my sweet home What's that honey? Nothing nothing dear not not that I'm just reading a letter Every time I have sex with you my dear Deborah. I think there is a better hole Excuse me never mind a happy anniversary Oh god Beaumont sent agents to bring st. Martin back All the agents reported that the family was very poor and one letter that all of them were destitute of clothing Oh my god, so they were like in tatters No, no money walking around with hardly any clothing on but the guy was still like I'm not going back to the whole man No, no, I can't know more Once Beaumont sent his son Israel as an envoy but Beaumont and st. Martin could never come to terms Say Martin wouldn't return without his family and Beaumont didn't want the family. Yeah, I mean that was the sticking point I'm bringing my family's like no you're not that woman made you go home. She if she poisons you She she keeps saying things about I know she doesn't like me She gives you what's known as self confidence Which I find it raging she makes you believe you're a human and you're not you're a hole that breathes for the last time Science made you for me Now let me spit in that hole. Oh God, that'd be kind of cool. I've got a piss in your hole now. All right pissing in your hole On the rare occasion agreement was met on the family matter the doctor wouldn't advance enough money to make the visit happen For fear the irresponsible st. Martin would squander the funds Two other medical groups attempted to obtain the services of st. Martin. Okay in 1837 He's like a hot commodity out there Talk to my agent. He's a real free agent. Yeah in 1837 a group of physicians that promoted vegetarianism sought to bring st. Martin to and his hole to Boston in the hopes of Disproving Beaumont's conclusion that meat was easier to digest than veggies. Yeah, so after all this shit, he's fucking wrong. Oh Fuck what the fuck point counterpoint? Sorry the whole salad in the hole Also the Medical Society of London raised three to four hundred British pounds to lure st. Martin over and show them the hole in 1840 He did not do it. Please come to our country Please take a possibly deadly voyage across the ocean with your hole. We understand Show us your hole diseases rampant on these vessels, but please bring your exposed wound hole to the queen Just pops the mornin' just in there so you don't get scurvy Bob's your uncle? Show us the hole! Oh there it is! Crikey it's beautiful. Oh that's a wonderful hole. Absolutely lovely. My lord. Sorry I dropped a tooth in it. Things are not all rosy for Beaumont. In 1840 he was called in as a physician to assist the publisher of a st. Louis newspaper Who'd been struck on the head with an iron cane by a politician who his newspaper had maligned? Freedom of the press! Yeah, that's great. If a guy's writing shitty stuff about you know paper you get to crack him over the head with an iron cane. Beaumont performed an operation cutting a hole in the patient's skull to remove the pressure. The publisher died and the politician went on trial for murder. In their defense his lawyers accused Beaumont of drilling the hole in the man's head just to see what was inside Just as he left the hole in St. Martin's side. It's a good argument. It worked. Oh shit! The politician got off with a $500 fine. A fine?! Don't do that again! Wow that's crazy though there's just such an airtight argument. Yeah there is. He's obsessed with holes. He's got a history of holes shit. I love holes you want to put it in a hole in a guy I gotta say. What do you say? Iron cane didn't kill him. The whole doctor did. Oh man! Over the years Beaumont had been accused of not closing the hole after the wound healed so he could exploit it. I can't really argue. A charge I don't think is false. Let me just see what a little cheeseburger does on the old brain. After that Beaumont's later life in St. Louis was comfortable. He was happily married and had three children he adored. While Beaumont's book never made him much money it brought him prominence which translated into a busy physician's practice. Beaumont died in 1853 about a month after he hit his head on an icy step after visiting a patient. Toward the end of his life Dr. Beaumont regretted his refusal to budge on his exclusion of St. Martin's family from the deal. That's his regret. I should have let him come. I could have spent another 20 years in my hole. God damn it. What? Do you have any last words? I miss my home. Not Rosebud? Let's just tell it. Let's tell his wife she said I love you. What is he on his death bed? He goes Rosebud. And then cut to them seeing a tattoo about a hole. It's his Rosebud. Or it's Rosebud. Rosebud. Oh fuck. St. Martin now lived the doctor by 27 years. He did not have a happy life. In 1856 a man going by the name of Bunting and masquerading as a doctor. That's amazing already. Hello I'm Bunting. I'm a doctor. Dr. Bunting you may call me. He toured St. Martin around 10 cities treating him like a circus freak. Bunting had been pulling scams for years. In January 1850 he came to Montreal and advertised in a newspaper a cure for stammering and stuttering. That's awesome. But how does it work? Just give me the money. They stop him. They stopped in each city for a few days. Boston, Cincinnati, Columbus, Detroit, Louisville, Montreal, New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis and Toronto. In each city doctors pointed out that Bunting was a fake. And that the 60-year-old man with the hole and his torso was a sorry drunk. The considerable press exposure drew the attention of circus master P.T. Barnum. But St. Martin never got called up to the big top. They're not having him? They should have. We're going to do one on P.T. Barnum because he was a monster. He was a nice guy. St. Martin and the imposter, swindler and villain as Bunting would become known in the press visited Miss Beaumont in St. Louis in June 1856 to pay respects to the widow of his former boss. St. Martin was described by the doctor's son as thin, meager-faced, much bronze little Frenchman. I can't believe he's going there to pay respects. He was still a nice guy. That's crazy though. Your husband was a great man. That's a lot of people. To me it was a living prison. Total hell. Could you toss one of those biscuits in here? Hey, none of that but the biscuits in the hole? St. Martin asked after the other children to wish the whole family well. The whole family. Except for the dead guy, he can go fuck himself. St. Martin made some money from the tour but it wasn't enough to lift him out of poverty in his old age. Israel and St. Martin corresponded for the rest of St. Martin's life. Alexis St. Martin died at St. Thomas de Joliet, Quebec on June 24th, 1880. His family purposely left his body out to decompose during a hot spell of weather before bearing him in an unmarked grave. So they went the slow cremation route? Well, to keep the curious from exhuming it. That's smart. The body was in such an advanced state of decomposition that it could not be brought into the church for his funeral mass but instead was left outside during the service. What a really nice visual, really sweet way to go. Just his body's out there and they're all inside and the dog runs up and humps the hole. Oh yeah. Where is St. Martin? Oh god, the dog's got him in the bushes. He won't let him go. The family refused many requests by medical professionals to buy the body or just the stomach. Dr. William Osler, for example, wanted the three-hold gut to reside permanently in the Army Medical Museum in Washington. In 18, sorry, in 1962, St. Martin finally got his due when the Canadian Physiological Society decided it was time to mark his grave. The committee finally persuaded one of St. Martin's granddaughters to disclose the grave location and a plaque was placed on the church's wall near the grave stating St. Martin's history and that through his affliction he served all of humanity. How do you feel? People are good. I just feel so bad for him. He got nothing good out of it. Just poor as fuck. Like it's bad enough to get shot and you're like, oh it was rough, I got shot but then have a permanent hole and some dude's like, this is great. So I've got some food for your hole. That's crazy. Wow, Jesus. I mean, I don't know, why do you keep fighting this shit? I mean, what the fuck? Horrible, horrible human. Horrible man. Any last words? I think it might actually be a little speechless. Come on, The