 You Do you want to look here to do one bottle people say this is funny not Gary Gara okay? Someone or something is tickling people is it for fun and this is not gonna come to tickle you quad go yeah Hey that town all hell Queens shit of lies though a bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Oh Now that I like that's very catchy your voice is very nice on that one. That's nice March 5th 1937 where are you gonna be then? Daniel Burrows son of George and Esther sunshine Burrows was born in Queens, New York Okay, and his high school His IQ was measured at 154 okay? His grades at John Adams High School ranged from 85 to 95 in most subjects in adolescence. He became intense even fairly hysterical Playing every game as if his life depended on it Breaking into a sweat if he feared he was losing his classmates mocked him constantly He was always getting into fights He talked compulsively of his desire to enter West Point and filled his notebook with sketches of soldiers and tanks I got a bad feeling He even enlisted in the National Guard while he was still in high school wearing his uniform to class on drill days Well that must have stopped the mockery Nothing like a uniform to make the kids nice In his junior year of high school had began filling his notebooks with drawings of German tanks and Papering his better walls with photographs of German generals good These are these are the heroes you want on your wall. Yeah, like this is what most kids did That's he want to look up in in 1950 the real deal after the just after the they're hot then they're hot still hey The Germans are okay, right? Yeah Hey, isn't just me or was Germany right on hello? Hello? Hello? anybody He never applied for West Point instead after graduation in 1955 he enlisted in the army He told one friend that if he couldn't become a soldier he had nothing left to live for Lighten up. Yeah. Hey. Hey take it easy. He's something an army commercial Burrows was a terrible paratrooper. He was overweight poorly coordinated and slow He wore thick lens glasses that made his eyes look larger than they were so what I don't know why he was picked on Yeah, so and also if he's so serious about this, why is he overweight? Thank you. He's such like a super like he's this is the only thing I could do. It's either this or I die fries the Hitler would like your big fat Yeah, what do with you? Take a shower The other enlisted guys in the barracks laughed at me had no friends and after a short time he tried to commit suicide three times First he made a few shallow razor cuts on his wrist. So all right if I may bullshit Yeah, try cry for help Oh Man look at this. I tried to slit my wrist. You can see it's a little red and irritated right I want out ice I try to scrape myself to death Yeah, I used a spoon it didn't go through next was an overdose of aspirin. I Mean look I don't want to nitpick But he's really going with the ones that are cries for help. Hey my headache's gone. Am I dead? Hey, I took nine aspirin. Whoa my tummy Finally he tried the razor on the wrist again, but again too shallow. He just tried hard to do it's hard to do Hard to know where the blood is. It's not an easy thing to do He did however leave a suicide note praising Adolf Hitler. Well That's when you really want to make sure these are deep cuts because if you leave that behind in the army. Yeah, no worse Yeah, okay, so That's a hard thing to do Hard to come back from that I was kidding The army discharged him by reasons of unsuitability character and behavior disorder and because you know hitler. Yeah Both returned home in 1958 and worked as a printer at the Queensboro Public Library He was considered a focused and conscientious employee, but there was just one drawback He talked non-stop about his admiration for Hitler and his hatred of the Jews Anyway, where's nonfiction? Uh Hitler was great. You know you want some real nonfiction. I'll give you a little nonfiction story. Hitler was awesome Where? Where's Nazi fiction? I'm actually writing some Nazi fiction nonfiction nonfiction nonfiction, you know I think let me answer your question with a question wasn't Hitler a good-looking guy You know what I mean, I just I'm looking for Moby Dick Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. That's all do you want to read mine comp? That's a lot like Moby Dick except the whales Jews Sorry, I'm okay with it his parents Uh-uh, what uh his parents knew about is what he was doing and they prayed it would go away in a spare time Burroughs operated the one man American National Socialist Party from a post office box in South Ozone Park. He rubber stamped swastikas onto his letters and distributed flyers such as there's nothing wrong with America that a pogrom wouldn't cure He preached that the Jews must suffer and suffer and suffer And suffer and suffer Settle more on this other page and then oh back page says a little bit more suffering Well good as long as he's stamping as long as he's stamping the swastika. That's good in 1960 Burroughs moved to Arlington, Virginia He lived at the headquarters of the American Nazi Party He swore an oath and loyalties Adolf Hitler and to George Lincoln Rockwell the American leader of the Nazi Party That was around ten years after his bar mitzvah Well, well, well when he'd become a man assumed a man's responsibilities Wow, did I not mention that he was Jewish? No, I think that's the first mention of it Not only Jewish a bar mitzvah Jew So like a practicing Jew Yeah, he went to a Hebrew school in Queens and a queen synagogue and his teacher Moses of Skia said Burroughs was a star People his grandfather Avram Burroughs has a memorial tablet at at the congregation sons of Israel and Queens So so not only was he a Jew. He was a real deal Jew. He's a terrible Jew He's a bad Jew, but at the time he was a real deal Holyfield Jew Any who any Jew Betty Burroughs fanaticism and skill as a printer quickly raised him From the ranks of the Nazi Party up the ranks. He became the party's national secretary It's third highest office Wow. He received the party merit medal He was arrested four times for disorderly conduct and received a suspended sentence for vandalizing the anti defamation league Oh, that's nice. So that so he's good. It's terrible He's the worst you yeah You often carried a little bar of soap wrapped in green paper bearing the German words meaning made from the finest Jew fat Oh my god, but not my grandfather. Yeah Also, is that a thing you want in yourself? Turn advantage. I mean, I know Irish spring. That's not made from the the fat of the Irish. I'm assuming Within 18 months Burroughs began doubting Rockwell's destiny. I guess he was not as good at leading the Nazi American Nazi part as as Burroughs thought he would be yeah at the same time his Jewish heritage was suspected by a number of fellow American Nazi Party members Many of the stormtroopers distressed at Burroughs for not only being Jewish, but also self-hating Jew So they were onto well, but what? Wouldn't we think you're self-hating? Well, if I am a Jew I am self-hating. I am here You'd revelation and that third from the top Yeah, so you just keep saying oil the time. Oh, I know nothing well Oh, it's bizarre behavior was what What is it led them to Burroughs would sometimes bring a knish is a knish Yeah, it is can you say he's bringing human touch to the meanings Burroughs would sometimes bring a knish to the American Nazi Party headquarters and makes make such statements as let's eat this good Jew food Okay, okay, this is this is interesting Burroughs often frequently spent time with Jewish women What the fuck is he? You want to go out on a date let's get some condition you have beautiful your beautiful a lot of hunts, but On November 5th 1961 Burroughs slipped out a window and returned home mom dad. I'm back Sorry about all that gonna kill you cuz you're a Jew and me also How is everything? been a while Burroughs got a job at the Manhattan printing company. He then joined other dissident Nazis in founding the American National Party It published kill magazine. I love kill from headquarters. I love kill. Have you read this article about killing? Yeah, and kill. Yep. They have the best killing articles. Oh page two killing. I love kill Burroughs signed his first editorial the importance of killing and And called on the white race to kill kill kill build a mountain of corpses of traders from which you can glimpse the great future You do need a mountain of traders to see the future. I've always said that oddly the magazine was not a big hit what kill wasn't Surprising it did not get up there with time as far as readership goes man of the year kills man of the year I ordered you the new kill. Oh my god. Where's the new kill? They have the best cartoons and kill The magazine folded within a year literally the squat blue-eyed and crew cut blonde hair Burroughs then hung out in Yorkville on the upper east side of Manhattan Yorkville was a center of New York Germans community the New York's German community and was a mecca for the extreme right Burroughs then joined the National Renaissance Party. I mean how many are these getting married so many of these parties a Local fascist link with links to Arab regimes and South American Nazi exiles again Burroughs was dissatisfied James Madel the NRP's anemic asthmatic asthmatic leader Didn't favor killing all Jews. I mean what the fuck now. He what are we here for trap and release? I Mean this is why I've wanted to kill Jews. It's my permits, but what are we doing here? And we have little rubber pads that the Jews will walk on and their feet will get stuck and then we'll release them back in the Jewish communities That's not why we're here. Well, they won't take the cheese. What do you want from us? I think you think you have mice That's what I'm thinking of I Get Jews and mice confused all the time in July 1963 the Congress for race and race In July 1963 the Congress for racial equality Demonstrated against white castle diners claiming they discriminated against hiring blacks Naturally the extreme right counter demonstrated calling the protesters niggers and coons. Well, they both have good points They both makes very interesting arguments they do on July 13th 1963 about a half dozen NRP supporters drove to a core demonstration at white castle in the Bronx One of Madol's men shouted let's get out of here. It smells like a zoo Another roared what do you expect when there's nothing but niggers? So this isn't gonna go well. It's cool. It's cool. That's cool They're good people listen. It's I mean, you know, it's you shouldn't be able to think any race can just eat a piece of shit burger It's not just for anybody A picketer attacked them the cops broke it up This is my favorite part then three NRP men drove to the nearest precinct and complained that the demonstrators had assaulted them Oh my god, so they're like just pure bitch. Yeah, 100% And if someone attacks at that point the detective noticed a fully loaded 22 caliber revolver Loaded tear gas guns crossbow loaded with a steel tipped arrow a butcher knife switch blade Straight razor and an axe in their truck So uh, no officer. That's just for Jews. Well, that's because he hurt our feelings So we had to go get those these guys are so meat after we call them the n-word And wouldn't let me eat white castle everyone in the truck was arrested Madola and burrows were picked up later that day in May 1964 a jury convicted burrows of conspiracy riot and firearm Possession his family bailed him out pending his appeal. Cool Now burrows thought Madola was full of shit. So he quit the NRP. Ah He's out. Why it seemed to be going so well. It's so hard to find a decent right wing murder group It's not easy. Well, you want to make sure you if you're gonna hit your wagon when you want to make sure it's the right one, right? Yeah, you just because then you'll find yourself in some of these rallies, you know, and your heart's not gonna be in there Oh, you're like, I don't know what I'm doing here. You don't want to you listen if you hate more If you really want to be passionate about your racism and find the right family. Yeah, that's that's what we're talking about. Absolutely He briefly published the free American the battle organ of racial fascism which he dated YF 76 YF Met year of the Fuhrer and counted from the birth of Hitler. Oh my god It's hard. Got him hard. Gotta make plans with you We're you were doing regular calendar or fewer months L see you in 84 What? 84 84. No, it's it's the 60s see you 84 What was happening Hitler? Okay, I the new Hitler calendar. Did you get your Hitler calendar? I sent you a Hitler calendar. I got you this card for your birthday. It's not my birthday. It is in fewer years It isn't your years Today's your birthday. Yeah, I'm following the Hitler calendar. It's catching on. It's catching on Lot of people are into it hallmarks making a Hitler calendar hallmarks all over it. They're loving it In early 1965 he attended a revival of DW Griffith's the birth of a nation at the Museum of Modern Art It inspired him as and who hasn't been inspired by that? He resumed that acquaintance with Roy Frankenhauser a one-eyed Grandragon of Pennsylvania Who introduced him? Yeah, yeah one-eyed the one-eyed a one-eyed dragon. He introduced him a penis He introduced into Robert Shelton the Imperial Wizard a no-eared wizard Shelton almost immediately appointed Burroughs the Grand Dragon of New York ruler of several dozen clansmen organized two Clavins one in New Yorkville and another on the waterfront in In 1965 the House Committee on Un-American activity subpoenaed Shelton and identified Burroughs and other clansmen This made the papers Burroughs have fired from his job the stories Were also noticed by a government agent who having investigated Burroughs knew his parents were Jewish He concluded Burroughs could be stopped only by his exposure as a Jew and Telephone to friend who knew someone at the New York Times. There we go out the Jew a Jewish clansmen who was the Grand Dragon of New York State seemed like it'd be a big news. Yeah story for yeah, right? Yes, that seems like That's good. That's a good story. It's a good. Yes for sure. Yeah The editors assigned the story to John McClendish Phillips on Friday October 22nd 1965 Philips tracked down Esther and George They wouldn't talk over the next week the paper tracked Burroughs life from high school through the army to fringe groups and magazines They found the record of his parents marriage Which was a Jewish ceremony. Yeah, Mazel tov Burroughs asked Phillips asked Burroughs for an interview and he agreed They met they met in a luncheonette near Lefferts Boulevard in Queens a little before 9 a.m. On October 29th 1965 They went over the Clansman's education his job since military career. He must have been loving it Yeah, it's cool to finally get a profile on me. I'm really having killing it Then Phillips asked Daniel Burroughs how he had become a Nazi The 20 year old Burroughs talked about his admiration of the Third Reich and his hatred of the Jews Gloting that their purging the United States would be far more violent than it had been in a civilized and highly cultured country like Germany What? Mm-hmm? Oh? Yeah, you know they were Really go to play to go far enough in my opinion could be chipping much more horror. I have notes. I have notes Yeah What the what the Germans it was really highly civilized there were just captured they were a little too cultured about it I think we should be more barbaric You know then killing an entire race Yeah, I mean it wasn't done. Well, it's all I'm saying The conversation continued until Phillips murmured your parents are married by In a where parents are married in a Jewish ceremony That was when the interview ended Burroughs threatened to kill Phillips in the luncheonette the reporter called for the check That's that's always the order to go in I'm gonna kill you can we just get the check you get the check whenever I'm sorry I know you're in the middle of something. I'm done with my My juice sandwich, I'll take a doggy bag and I don't know about you but They stepped outside of Burroughs threatened to kill Phillips again the time's reporter a devout and village and Evangelical replied it is appointed unto men wants to die but after this the judgment Okay, so I don't like either one of them right now. Yeah, I mean It's hard. That's what you say to a guy. Can you fucking quote some scripture bullshit? Well? At least at least if you're an evangelical you're at least consistent Yeah, if being a KKK Jew It's uh, that's a hard one Now that I'm on the side of evangelicals Do you know? Burroughs said he was trapped he couldn't change and liked his life god damn it. I've got a good thing going here Just shut up. I've got an awesome life. That's a Jew mouth Then they shook hands and burrows Waddled away The next day Saturday, October 30th Times reporters confirmed that burrows had been bar mitzvah at Talmentora That's my favorite place to be met. It's a good. It's the best. It's a good one on Sunday, October 31st 1965 Dan Burroughs was at Frankenhauer's residence in Reading, Pennsylvania He went out early to buy the New York Times and apparently returned without reading it Okay So, okay, hold on So you go so your whole life you're you're a Jewish guy. You've joined the Klan. Yes You're now you one of the top dogs. Yes, your grand dragon. You're dragging the shit out of it Yeah, right you're breathing fire you're flapping your fucking dragon in the wizard and a guy with one eye Things are good things are you're basically the hobbit. Yes, and then a reporter comes and says hey I know you're a Jew and you've threatened to kill this record I'm and then a couple days later you go to buy the paper. Yes, and you go back to your Klan'sman's buddy's house Yes, and you don't read the fucking paper, right? You just Weird choice Weird weird call He then looked at the front page and gasped oh my god That's me what the fuck is his problem front page in it. I want to save this for home Burrows then ran upstairs with Frankenhauser and several other Klan's men behind him He dashed into Frankenhauser's bedroom grabbed a 32 caliber revolver from the bureau and turned to his friends He said I've got nothing left to live for and Fired into his own chest. Ah Frankenhauser's girlfriend screamed then burrows still standing said This'll do it and raise the gun to his head and pull the trigger His last words were this'll do I definitely want those to be my last words this'll do it Frankenhauser called the reading police and the corner pronounced burrows dead The reading police called what? The reading police called the NYPD the NYPD called George and Esther Burrows They caught a late bus missed a connection in Philadelphia and sat up all night at the terminal They arrived at reading the next morning on the way to the hospital to identify the body Esther said over and over he was such a good boy Hmm Was I'm gonna dispute that he was a good because of him being a Jew and wanting to kill all Jews That's when he became a bad man. He was a good boy. He became a bad man And a press conference a morose George Lincoln Rockwell praised Burrows dedication. I mean for a Jew I will say was awesome. I'm glad he's dead But there's a special place for that Jew in my heart. I mean he had a bit of a handicap from my black heart Which I also hate the race of my heart He took the opportunity to rail against Jews who he referred to which leads me to Jews in general who are just pieces of garbage am I right Who he referred to as a unique people with a distinct mass of mental disorders and Ascribed Burrows instability and suicide to this unfortunate Jewish psychosis. That's a shame You know what? He could have been one of the best. He could have been one of the best Jew haters except He had a job right. I think we had a Jew brain. He had a Jew brain. So problem. I mean right there No, we're in the rabbit hole. He was one of the good ones Despite the fact that Burrows was a Jew and distrusted by his fellow stormtroopers Rockwell had wished to maintain at least a working relationship with him Sweet it's really it's really sweet. It's a good story. It's a good story I do like how as It seems just like the history of man is always based around groups just despising groups for No real reason none and it just continues forever I would I would imagine that he his Jewish hatred came hatred came from being picked on in school Yeah, at a Jewish school. So he decided that all even I've known like Jews who are like I'm almost anti-Semitic You know, there's people who are Jews who are just like they're so they're annoyed by by their their fellow Jews Yes But never to the point where you're gonna kill them all being like get rid of them Get rid of me. I Mean what I'm gonna kill everybody and then me at the end. It takes a real self-loathing to get there. Yeah, that's yeah And you know what sucks, but he was such a good boy. We're such a good boy That's just such a good boy. It's a good boy That's a smile up there you go