 Welcome to the dollop each week. I, Dave Anthony, tell a story from American history to my friend, Gareth Reynolds, who knows nothing about it. Oh my god, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling me. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to Tickly Clodcast. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail queen shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do my thing. Hi, Gary. No, this is done, my friend. No, no. Why? I mean, I think you might be the only person who loves it. I know, but it's all about it. But is it all about? Yeah, I think it is. At the end of the day, it is. It's a great thing. Fair point. I just love what you do. I think I like it now. Thanksgiving is upon us. Yes. So. A day of thanks. A day of thanks. So I thought we would look into the history of Thanksgiving. Okay. Oh, I know what I want to do. Well, can I just say right off the bat, this cannot be good. No, it's going to be great. This cannot be good. How could it go wrong? I feel like I'm not going to feel comfortable putting thanks in the day's name anymore. All right. So to do a little compare and contrast. Okay. Oh, wow. Our first dollar prop. Yeah. Our doll prop. Yeah. It was our first prop. The first time we bring in something from the outside. So the reason that I decided to do this was because I read stories to my son. And I couldn't find the Donald Duck one, which is what I was looking for. Okay. The Donald Duck one in my son's room called the very first Thanksgiving. So why don't we read that? Sure. So people from other countries will know what we're talking about when we talk about what Thanksgiving is. Oh, yeah. It's a great day. It's a day of thanks. Yep. This is the very first Thanksgiving day. And then they show people gather on a table. This is the food gathered in blessed, the corn and sweet berries, the wild turkey dressed shared on the very first Thanksgiving day. Well, it's a nice. And then they're making turkey and biscuits. Yeah. Yeah. No, it looks like a whole thing. And some kind of berry there. They'll have napkins on their heads. They've got a great assortment of food. These are the Indians, skillful and strong, who knew how to live through the winter so long and ate of the food gathered in blessed. So the Indians are all coming to eat. It's nice couple of them actually. We're cool enough to show up with some food. Yeah. Most of them did. No, that's the honest. There are a lot of Indians there without. That's not the Thanksgiving I've heard of, Dave. These are the pilgrims who farm the new land, who steadfastly labored and told by hand and learned from the Indians. I can't tell you how nervous I am for what's about to happen. No, no, it's fine. It's fine. Because this is not going to be good. These are the houses built in straight rows that stood in the hot sun and harsh winter snows and sheltered the pilgrims who farm the new land. Because it feels like they're skipping over a detail. I don't know what you're talking about. This is the harbor marked by a huge stone where the first steps were taken to chart the unknown and not far from the houses built in straight rows. So there they are getting off the boat. Yep, snowing. It's lovely. Yep. This is an American Indian in a loincloth looking at a ship. This is the Mayflower ship in full sail that weathered the rough seas, the wind in the hail and docked in the harbor marked by a huge stone. I love how there's no mention of the Native American with the spear that he's like pointing at them aggressively. They just drew it in. Yeah, and also I just like that he's standing there in a loincloth. Yeah. I mean, let's be honest. Oh, no, that's coming back. That'll look his own. And they're really obsessed with the rock, which I don't really go into because... Yep. Get over it. It's fucking rock. I totally agree. That rock is like American Idol winners. They get it. They saw a rock when they got here. I get it. The rock. I get it. The rock. Okay. Bound of the rock. Okay. Suck the rock stick. It escalated fast, didn't it? Very aggressive. Sorry. Just bow to it. This is the ocean. Maybe suck it stick. This is the ocean that never would end that sometimes was foe and sometimes was friend that carried the Mayflower ship in full sail. This is the land where it all began. The land where Brave Group made ready their plan to travel the ocean that never would end that sometimes was foe and sometimes was friend, some on the dock waiting to get on their ship. Oh, yeah. That carried the Mayflower ship in full sail that weathered the rough seas and the wind and the hail and docked in the harbor marked by a huge stone where first steps were taken to chart the unknown. It's them getting off a little rowboat. Not far from the houses built in straight rows that stood in the hot sun in the harsh winter snows and sheltered the pigworms who farm the new land, who steadfastly labored and toiled by hand. Yep. Damn right. Oh, and here's the big. That's lovely. That's like a Wears Waldo. Big table and all the dishes. And some people and there's a guy clearly praying and then just tons of people gather around thinking it's great. And eight of the food gathered and blessed the corn and sweet berries and wild turkey dressed shared on the very first Thanksgiving day. So before we get into this, I would like to say that they didn't have any fucking dishes or tables. What? If they had first Thanksgiving, you know, they're eating on the ground with their dirty fucking hands. You don't know that. I know that because I've read all the history. You don't know. They didn't have any fucking dishes. What year did they invent dishes? Exactly. You don't know. I try to work with you. I've always said I think dishes were invented in the 1200s. I've always, I'm on record. What does that even mean? Well, there'll be no more questions. I just let's say, okay, I'm pretty steadfast on that. Okay, that's cool. Doesn't feel that cool. That's cool. Okay. European colonization of the Americans began as early as the 10th century when Norse sailors explored and settled limited areas on the shores of present day Greenland and Canada. All right. According to Norse folk lore, violent conflicts with the indigenous population ultimately made Norse abandoned those settlements. So the Vikings cruised around and they were like, okay, I don't want to deal with it. Like we're Vikings and we're like, all right, I get it. We're not wanted. Okay. Yeah. They got the message. It's a lot. Closing time. It's a lot. And then they played closing time and they got on the ship. Oh, we know what that means. To the ship. Extensive European colonization began in 1492 when a Spanish expedition headed by a time when Christopher Columbus sailed west to find a new trade route for the Far East. So celebrated he gets his own day, but he accidentally found America. Yes. And he, and he is credited with a hero finding America. Yes. Finding America and even though he didn't, other people found it first. Well, I found something. Others have found. Oh, okay. Standing behind the guy who just cured AIDS, just being like, I just did it. I did it. Second, I did it. Remember me now? After Spain, all the Europeans country, all the European countries wanted it on the action. France also founded colonies in the Americas and in Northeast America, a number of Caribbean islands and small coastal parts of South America, Portugal colonized Brazil, tried early colonizing the coast of present day Canada. I guess that didn't work out for him. The number of people living in America was estimated to made it in the Americas was estimated to have been around 50 million. Okay. In 1492 and close came 50 mil. That's how many were already here. Already here, living in the place that someone found. Okay. So I found a place where there are a shitload of people. Everybody hide. Look what I found. By 1650, the number of people living in the Americas was 8 million. So there's a drop. That's a big drop. That's a drop. That's a lot of dropping. The herd was dramatically thinned by old world diseases. The Europeans were filthy creatures, used to rolling around in their own garbage dump of diseases, which they just brought over and went, would you like some? We've got something to share. And in turn, although they all died, they gave syphilis to the old world. Oh, that's... I think you may have this. I'll share this. It'll be fun. I made someday read the story of syphilis because what happened in Europe, specifically Italy, is beyond... It might be the first rated X thing we do, not because of the sex, but because of the descriptions of the people. Like faces falling off. Oh my God. Faces falling off. Well if your people have never been around syphilis, then the first guy that gets it is just like... Rotten away. Harry's face just dropped off. I've been fucking. So Harry fucked two days ago and his face is on the fucking ground. I'm a little worried. So by the time the English came rolling on through, much of the Americans are already dead. In 1605, Captain George Weymouth came rolling on one of his boats. He was checking out the New England coastline to see what he could grab. He didn't find any gold or other exciting riches, but he did find some dudes. Oh, alright, cool. Then we grabbed them. Oh, the don't... Little worried about that. Well they were looking for money. They were looking for shit they could plunder and they saw some dudes and we can take them and sell them or whatever. It's like if you go out to rob a place and it gets thwarted, you'll take a candy bar on the way out. Yeah, you're like, fuck it, I'll just take this. Two things. I got something. I got something. I win. We used little delay, but suddenly laid bare hands upon them for they were strong and so naked as our best hold was by long, by their long hair or their heads. So they grabbed a bunch of naked dudes by their hair. Hey, that's allowed. Welcome to the new world. Yeah. Because they weren't explorers. They were working for companies. Oh, fuck. The ships were built to earn profit. There was no curiosity going at this point. No one was out looking for anything other than wealth. The main fight was whether private companies or public traded companies should be allowed to set up colonies. It's just, it's just never been right. No, we went, hey, let's bring everything that's wrong over to the new world. So on behalf of the Plymouth company, Captain Waymouth grabbed six Americans from the land they had grown on and put them on a ship and brought them back to England. Wait, and it's called the Plymouth company. Yeah. So is that like Plymouth Rock was just like when AT&T buys a sports stadium? I believe Plymouth is a place in England. Okay. And so they had already, they would already, they'd already named it Plymouth. So when they get, when they name it Plymouth Rock, that's because they're like, and that's like the boat play. That's like where we came from. Okay. Yeah. It'd be like if you left San Francisco and you got on a boat and you went down to Los Angeles and you went, also San Francisco. Another San Fran. So he grabbed a bunch of dudes. He grabbed six dudes. So they went back to England. Like we didn't find gold, but we found dudes. But we'd grabbed six guys. The most famous of those stolen humans was named Squanto. He was a member of the Paw Tuxet. Paw Tuxet. Damn it. That's okay. Paw Tuxet tribe. Okay. Who are now an extinct people almost. No, the Paw Tuxet are extinct. Yes. They were banned of the Wampanoag Tribal. There are any American Indians listening. They're going to be like, Jesus, dude, you're butchering. Buddy, just, just, don't, don't get into the specifics. Wampanoag Tribal Confederation. They lived around modern day Plymouth, Massachusetts. Okay. Squanto got the full European bullshit ride. Back in England, Sir Fernando Gorgias, owner of the Plymouth company, taught Squanto English and trained him to be a guide interpreter. No one knows exactly what Squanto was doing between 1605 and 1614. He was certainly telling Gorgias about the American natives, the land, and where the riches were. He was then sent back to America in 1614 with John Smith, who had spent years as a mercenary fighting in Spain, France, the Netherlands, Hungary, and the Ottoman Empire. He was also a pirate for a bit. He was captured by the Turks and sold into slavery. Then he escaped and made his way back to England in 1604, where he became involved in the Let's Make Money Off America bandwagon. He's one of the most, if not the most prominent name of men who set up colonies in the Americas. And will probably be the subject of his own dollop at some point. This is a meaty subject, I feel. Yeah. So in 1614, he was on board. He was on a second trip to America. He had already made one. Then were brought on board with the expectation of riches. On this trip, they were all about whales and gold. Okay. So in this case, we grabbed dudes. Look, if we can't fight gold, we get whales. All right? I beg you guys. If we can't get whales, we grab dudes. Let's get whales and gold. And then they all got on a ship. Whales and gold, whales and gold. I have exhausted. Whales and gold, whales and gold. Keep singing the song. Whales and gold, whales and gold. All the way there, gentlemen. Whales and gold, whales and gold, whales and gold, whales and gold. It quickly came apparent when they set sail that most of the dudes on the ship didn't know dick about whaling. So all the guys were like, I know how to catch a whale. And they got on the ship and they were like, I actually. Make kissing noises. Is that not working? Wait, I got this. Here, big thing, big thing, big thing. So now John Smith took the expectations down a bit and he decided to have them be all about fish and furs. So now they were just catching fish and trying to get furs. Better time till it's like shells. We're looking for shells. OK. Rocks. Rocks. Any rocks, pebbles, anything, literally anything. He split up his man when he reached America. He left a Colonel Hunt to fill one of the ships with fishes and then told him to return after he'd filled up the ship with, I guess they would take the fish and dry them and then bring them back. That's when they're the best. But Hunt was like, fuck that noise. Oh boy. So they grabbed 25 Americans, Native Americans. I'm just calling them Americans this because the rest of them. Well, they are. I mean, these cunts are all English or Spanish. They're all they're they're Europeans to grab about 25 Americans and headed to Spain to sell them as slaves. This move would this move would forever set the Nasset Indians permanently a war with all colonists. So one of the first ships over there, dudes like, I'll just grab a bunch of these guys. And from then on, they were at war. Whatever colonists came in, they were just like, yeah, they killed them. They were they were at war. Well, put me into slavery once. Yeah. Shame on you. Right. And then another time and I'm no slavery twice. It's my fault. But how does George Bush say it? George Bush says, fool me once. Shame on you. Fool me. Can't get fooled again. Arguably my favorite thing that's ever happened. In Spain, Squanto was taken by some monks who wanted to convert him to Christianity. He lived there for a couple of years. Could you imagine you just a fucking living a living a fine life, your fucking tribe and everything is great. And then all of a sudden you're some guys are trying to tell you about Jesus. It's a life in place. Yeah, like it's insane. Yeah. No, yeah, you're just like, wow, I really wish I wasn't there that day. Holy fuck. Oh, God, why didn't I make a left? Like if I had literally just not pissed, I wouldn't be listening to this guy tell me about the man in the clouds for two years. Then he eventually met an Englishman and he knew he wanted to get back to England because that's where he had met the other guys. So now he's been he's been he's been he's been kidnapped once taken to England. Brought back. Brought back. Re-gnapped. And then and then some guy decided to sell resell him with the other guys he just caught, brought him back to Spain, sold them to some dudes who try to tell him about Jesus. I'm sure he's really happy. Yeah. So so he went back to England and then he met the treasure of the Newfoundland company who was like, hey, man, you want to make you want to make some scratch, bro? Squanto was like, fuck, yeah, I want to get home. So he went home. Yeah, home. So he went on a trip to Newfoundland, which, okay, found one, which is kind of home. Closer anyway. Yeah. When he was there, a guy who used to work with the gorgeous guy on the Plymouth company was like, fuck, Squanto girl, what's up? Hey, what are you doing in the Newfoundland? What what a small world, Squanto. And it's my world. There you is. Squanto was like, shit has been crazy. I've been bagging for so the guy wrote a letter to Aminelle, the guy wrote a letter to gorgeous and and he was like, get my boy back here, get Squanto back to England. This is going to get back on a ship. He's done he's now done more traveling in his life than I have. Yes. Yes, I've only been across the Atlantic once. Squanto's been on the road a lot. He's a road native. Yeah. Squanto found itself back in England. Thankfully, Sir Fernando Gorgeous, Gorgeous organized another expedition to New England. So okay, now it's happening. This time, Squanto was to help the expedition and then when it was over, they were going to drop in and drop him in his village. So he'd be back with his peeps. All good. He could live with his peeps again. All he ever wanted. And it's been like, what, 10 15 years? A long time. It's been a long time. So in 1619, at the end of the expedition, they dropped anchor at Plymouth Harbor. This is about one year before the pilgrims arrived. Squanto found that every man, woman and child in his home of the tribe of the paw, toxic have been wiped out by plague in 1617. Mainly smallpox and leptocerosis, which is also known as rat catchers yellows. One European wrote the savages died like rotten sheep and their bodies before and after death were exceedingly yellow. So Squanto got picked up. He was hanging with his peeps. Having a fine life. He got picked up, taken in a boat back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. And then they dropped him off and everyone he knew was dead. Well, winning. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. No, things are good for Squanto. So he was the only Pawtuxet left. Jesus. The only one of his kind alive. Squanto decided to remain with the, here we go, Poconockets. Okay. Where Massasoit, the grand satcham of the Wampanoag Federation resided. A lot of people from other countries, I don't know, a lot of Indian tribes created federations to fight other federations. So they were, they like gathered up their tribes to be at bigger numbers to fight other, that was sort of the deal. Just picture the warriors. They did inter trading within that, you know, they were like a nation state. Yeah. So he decides to hang out with those guys and they're like, sure, man, all your peeps are dead. Come hang with us. So he's basically kicking it with the big dogs at this point because he was, he was like sort of famous. Yeah. Meanwhile, a group of people in England were having a hard time. Oh, poor. Oh, here we go. One of the 1559 act of uniformity, it was illegal not to attend official Church of England services. The penalty penalties for conducting unofficial services included imprisonment and fines. So you couldn't have your own church. There are a lot of Puritans in England at the beginning of the 17th century who wanted to purge Christianity of corruption and being lax with the rules of Rome and the Church of England. Where's your peeps now? Yeah, I'm aware, but I just, I think, how is religion going to work without all that corruption? That's real. Yeah. The core of the group that would come to be known as the Pilgrims were brought together by a common belief in the ideas promoted by Richard Clifton. Such a much, much easier name to say. Yeah. Pocaloco. Well, our heart goes out to you Dave. Pocahontobol. The Pilgrims were a group of people from Babworth Rest East Retford and Nottenhamshire, England. They came together around 1600. They weren't known as Pilgrims then. That name was not actually given them till 107 years later, but we're going to use it because it separates them. I don't know what they were called. They were just called like those. They were just like crazy assholes. Pretty much. Yeah. Among them. They were just catchier. Yeah, really is. Among other things, they were opposed to the wearing of surpluses. Surpluses? Yeah. What is that? I don't know. I should have looked that up. Fucking glad they didn't let them wear it. The exchange of wedding rings. So they're a little strict. Yeah. No, don't do that. But we're getting married. Fucking animals. You imagine having legally having to go to church. That's how sure people are. There's a man in the sky. You must come here or he'll get pissed. What else? But the wedding rings and making the sign of the cross at baptism. That was not okay. They were not down with that. Okay, they were a little. But what is... They were a little... What is a baptism? That's when you get... Yeah, no, I know what it is, but what... Like they're like, don't get religion involved in the baptism. Separation of baptism and religion for sure. Now let's dip this baby in water for God. Oh, okay. So a surplus was the white, the big like white thing that they wear. Oh, the dumb, the little... No, the robe. Like... Oh, okay. Okay. So all that shit, all that shit, you know, they're like... No. Now we've made a more... Hold on. The rings, the white robes and then the crossing. At the baptism. At the baptism, Jerry. Not having it. They believe the church was beyond repair. Their biggest problem was that the state had no business in running a religion, which... Okay. Valid and... Fair start. Congregations had the right to elect their own leaders. Everything was seriously not down with the separatist bullshit. Two other men at the time, Harry Barrow and John Greenwood, who led other separatist groups, were executed. Knowing that their very lives were in peril, the pilgrims held secret services, churches at Scrooby Manor House. Ah, Scrooby. Just so English. Scrooby-do. So English. Yeah. Let's do it at Scrooby. Right. The plan is, we'll meet at Scroobies and we'll not make the side of the cross where we're getting rings and any of that. Right. Secret, secret pray. Don't wear your surplus. What do you mean what's a surplus? Wear like a dark one. Not white. Who are you crossing? We're not going to Scroobies. Benjamin. Where are you doing the cross? The king and a new archbishop of York started cracking down on the pilgrims. They knew they had to go. And the main congregation interpreted a devastating flood that surged up the Bristol Channel in January 1607 as a sign of divine disapproval. Well, you know how God swith waves. Yeah. Look, I passed. I, this is, I haven't been on earth in a long time and I know it floods every couple of years but that one was fucked up. I am so pissed at them. That's how God works. Yeah. So, Zach, do you want us to stay flood? Okay, we're going. No, don't do that. I was just in a bad mood. So a lot of them decided to get the hell out of England. Number who were willing to leave to stick to their guns compared to those who were like, fuck it. You know, a lot more people stayed. Okay. Then went. Right. A lot of people were like, fuck it. We'll just stick it out here and try to change things. Make the sign of the cross and a baptism. Keep our heads down. So comparatively low number, a few hundred at best. Okay. Decided to get out. All right. Now that's this. These are just the pilgrims. There were tons of separatist groups popping up all over the place. So later that year, a large group tried to flee the country booking passage from the Lincoln Shire Port of Boston, but they were betrayed by the ship's captain. The leaders were imprisoned in the town's medieval guild hall. Jesus. No. A guild hall. Because the captain was like, let's see, I got their money. How can I get out of taking the trip? Oh yeah. You guys are all fuckheads. So we paid you. I know. It's weird. Starting to like this captain a little bit. A year later, the pilgrims tried again and a handful of them made it to Amsterdam where they were followed by a steady trickle of others from the Scrooby area. Leaving Scrooby. Don't tell anyone. Those imprisoned were eventually released and made their way to Amsterdam also. Okay. One wrote, they all got over at length, but some at one time and some at another and some in one place and some in another and met again according to their desires with no small rejoicing. Good. I write like an asshole. Yeah. I even write English. Can you believe that grumble grumble? Gaffar, gaffar, wink. After a year or so, the flock now numbering 150 or so moved south to the town of Lieden. They were there for 12 years. At that point, they decided to move to the New World. They said it was for the sake of the children. In Lieden, they had to work from an early age and many of them were learning Dutch and adopting Dutch customs. Well, I'll tell you, you know how the Dutch are awful. Oh, God. And I'd call people. My son came out today wearing wooden shoes. And he loved them. And he had tulips. I believe he's making the sign of the cross as well. Tulips like the devil. He's got great weed though. So they decided to leave. William Bradford, a leader, worried that the children were being, quote, drawn away by evil examples into extravagance and dangerous courses. And Lieden was cramped with slum-like conditions. They had come from the open farmland of England to basically a filth hole in near Amsterdam. After a year or so, the flock now, oh, I worried not all of them went. They all went to America. Okay. So some were scared. And they should have been. Because it's like someone going, hey, man, you want to live in the crazy woods? I know you're used to it here, but you know there's not. I know you like cable, but do you want to come to the woods? Do you want to go live just at a place where there's nothing and you can just make everything you need? We'll figure it out. Yeah, we'll figure it out. We got it. We got nothing but time. Have you ever been camping? No. Let's do it. It's like that, but worse. What can go wrong? What can go wrong? So the woman stayed behind to tend the lead in flock. He had gone to New England history. Had he gone to New England history, especially the relations between the pilgrims and Indians might have been very different. That's foreshadowing, by the way. Robinson ended up emerging as a man of singular intelligence and liberality who decided, for example, that St. Paul was wrong and that women should feel free to speak up in church. Oh, wow. So this guy would had he got a little more reason. He was like the only reason to lead. He was like, yes, women can speak. I mean, and it sounds that really is amazing. At that time, that must have been like, put out, bite that tongue, bite that tongue. Who spoke like a woman? He actually was a woman, sir. I'm going to be sick. A woman speaking in the church. All the men of pharmacy. So the pilgrims sent two delegations to secure a land patent from the London company on a condition from the king. The pilgrims religion would not be officially recognized. So the king was like, you can get the fuck out. I want you to go. I want you to get the fuck out away from England. I know you're not here now, but it's enough. Just go. But you can go there, but just don't. Don't no doing your don't. Don't be. Don't be crazy. Go to your stupid religion. Just act like you're not doing it. Cool. All right. Get the fuck out. I'm not going to do that. Negotiating with the London company was not an easy task because of the continuing problems within the London company preparation stalled. The congregation was approached by competing Dutch companies and the possibility of setting in the Hudson River was discussed with them. The negotiations were broken off at the encouragement of another English merchant, Thomas Weston, who assured them he could resolve the London company problems. So a bunch of religious nuts. A bunch of fucking lunatics were like, we want to run away to America and now companies are competing to get them who have no fucking idea what they're doing, who just want to get on a boat and go to a place who have no skills to do this. So everyone's like, yeah, I'll do you want to do it? Like everyone is trying to get them to fucking do it for it. It's insane. It's like the worst ideas ever. Sounds like dragon's done. But at the end of the day, they're looking for money. Everyone wants money. Yeah. Right? Thomas Weston came back. The parties in England had obtained a land grant north of the existing Virginia territory to be called New England. Okay. So they got a land grant. I think that place will stick. Merchants calling themselves adventurers agreed to finance the expedition in return for seven years of shared profits from whatever the colonists were able to produce and send back. Okay. So that's the deal. You go to America, whatever furs, whatever fucking shit you can make, fishing, I just want to cut. I just want to cut. I want a piece. I want a big piece. I just a big fucking piece. I want mostly the piece. Just get you take a slice of pie and then give me the pie. It was expected that this area could be fish profitably and it was not under the control of the existing Virginia government. So that was there was already a Virginia. Right. In England, new investors had been brought into the venture and they altered the contract. I know that's not how that works. Is it at the end of the seven year contract, half of the settled land and property would revert to them. That's a pretty big twist. And that provision for each settler to have two days per week to work on personal business was dropped. Oh, so now they had to work all seven days for the company and then just send almost everything back. That's pretty cool. They never told the pilgrims that part. That's cool. That's why you got to have your lawyer look at all this. You always have your lawyer checking out for you. Hey, have a good trip. You're basically slaves. All right, take care. Okay. Have a good time. We don't need you, motherfuckers. Time. Time and money was tight. The pilgrims decided the younger, stronger members would settle the colony first. The others would make the journey later as they were April. Okay. Two ships released for the journey, the speed while on the Mayflower. Which one have you heard of? The speed well. It always thinks speed well when you think Thanksgiving. But the crew on the speed well sabotage the speed well. What sabotage? They didn't want to because they already got paid. Jesus. They didn't want to go across the ocean. Oh, man. So if the ship didn't work, then they could keep the money. If there was ever a time in history for PayPal, it is the time. Yeah, ship is there broken. Well, yeah, we're not going to do it. She's got holes in her. So I'm just going to sit around with Barbie here in the dock. It looks like a manmade hole. It's a foot shaped one. Yeah. All right. Okay. That was once we're going to shut this one down. Okay. But the money. The speed well turned around. Some programs got on the Mayflower, others stayed behind. Okay. When the Mayflower finally embarked on September in 1620, 102 passengers were on board. Only 28 adults were actually members of the congregation. The rest were people looking to make a buck off the trip, or worse, were just grabbed off the streets. Back then, not really anybody wanted to get on a ship and die in the new world. So the early colonial ships were filled with vagrants. They would go to the slums and just grab drunks and people laying around. At one point, there was actually a genuine discussion of putting all vagrants on ships and sending them to the new world. Well, in the log run, they did. It's like kind of like Australia where they sent all the criminals. Yeah, right. But it's different. It's just like, do you have a house? No. Get on that boat. Do you want to take a boat tour? Take the rope off the dock. The 3,000 mile voyage took 66 days, meaning the ship averaged two miles an hour. Holy fucking sweet. 66 days. Oh, god. Because it was just filled with people and shit. The fuck were they eating? They didn't have refrigerators? What the fuck were they doing? You know, they had, they brought like dried fish and stuff. Oh, yum. And, you know, they had oranges for a couple of days. 66 days of dried fish. On the way, one baby was born and his parents named him Oceanus. Oh, those parents are, that's like, that's like today's names. That's like when Blue Ivy, you dumbass, just fucking give it a name. Sarah. This is me boy, Cabbage. This is waves. Two people died and the ship nearly sank in a storm. When they finally arrived, they were away off course. They were in Cape Cod pretty far from Virginia. So it was November. Hey, what's the worst time to land in America and try to plant a crop? I'd say right around November. Yeah. November. Yeah. No crops happening for a long time. Snow's about to hit and if it isn't, if it isn't there already, right? Yeah, it probably was. Plus December's coming. You have to start shopping for Christmas. Well, it's the holiday season for sure. Right. So you gotta, very busy, a lot of traffic. Yeah. A lot of vagrants to buy bottles of booze for. Yeah. So they tried to head down to Virginia, but the weather was too brutal and the currents were against them. So they turned it back around. All the people who were not pilgrims immediately said, Hey, we're not in Virginia. So we're not bound to the contract that says we're working in Virginia and we don't take orders from anybody. So here we go. Later. And I keep, baby. Fuck off. Real sticklers for rules and contracts. Yeah. But the pilgrims were worried that all their agreements with the company and the king were useless. Now, the other, let me tell you, they were probably right. Judging by previous history. Now the other people on the ship who are not pilgrims were called strangers. That's what they were called. That's what they're called to this day, the strangers. They're pilgrims and the strangers. All right. So this, this story is leaning towards one side from the get go. Uh huh. Uh huh. They're the good people and you're the shithead. Yeah. Shocking. Uh, it was then that the strangers announced that because they hadn't been delivered to Virginia, they weren't bound to the contract and they would take orders from no one. In fact, the separatists feared all their agreements with the company, the strangers and King James were totally useless. Right. So they're freaking out. Yeah. They knew if there was division, there was little hope on anyone surviving. So they had to work together. So, and this is a big historical part that everyone talks about. So before they left the boat, a new contract was created to ensure the cooperation among the settlers. The document came to be known as the Mayflower Compact. Uh huh. Quote, for the general good of the colony unto which we promise all do submission and obedience. Okay. So basically they said that everybody to, if any decision was ever going to be made, everyone would vote on it and whatever the majority was, everyone would agree to it. Okay. So basically when they got there because of the fuckups, democracy was created. Yes. They also set the precedent that only adult males would have a voice in government. Hmm. Okay. That's democracy at work for me. Yeah. This is where the pilgrims come in. Uh, no, shut the women up. Can we, can we get a meeting in here where it's not. All right. Let's have a vote. Women, your hands should not be moving. I don't see women's hands up. Do I? Good. You're a bunch of people. Your brain's different and stupid. Now stop raising your hands and voting. And once the vote was taken, all would stand with the majority decision. It was ratified by a majority rule with 41 adult male passengers signing. Okay. So out of, out of the 41, 26 are pilgrims, right? Yep. John Carver was chosen to act as the colony's first governor. Now the place they just landed happened to not have any Americans living there. Alrighty. Why? Because it was where Squanto was from. Oh. This was the land of the Potuxik. Oh no. They had arrived three years after the European plague had swept through and killed 100% of Squanto's tribe. They took this as a divine providence and assumed God had cleared their way by killing the natives. Yeah. Well, and if you looked at the ocean, there were some waves. So you know God's involved. How great is it? It's coincidence that a plague came through here right after one of our ships came through just before and we... The lord is powerful and smart and decided to kill all those dirty people for us. After we came through before. Right. That part we don't need to discuss. But it was God. God, God did it. Look at the ocean. Let's get your eyes on the ocean. God did it, but it might have been us also. God gave us the illness to spread. In an amazing turn of events, they also found huts the Americans had not destroyed before they... Oh, the lord has built us huts as well. He is mighty. Before the people died of the plague. So people dying of the plague, it turns out they don't tear down their village. Now, Dave, why is that? Because they're laying around vomiting and bleeding. Well, it'd be nice if they could do a task or two. We should clean up before we all die. Make it look nice. They also found some pots and cooking items. Dishes, probably. Some of which were in graves. But they dug up. You know, just looking for... The lord is so mighty and generous today. I am going to dig in this whole person and see what kind of shit he has. It's nice when you feel like God's on your side for grave robbing. It's like a good feeling. Look what God left me next to these bones. And some shoes. Oh, the lord is mighty. They called the colony the Plymouth Plantation. All right. And there's a big rock there. They name Plymouth Rock. Yeah. The eight from abandoned cornfields that had grown wild. Oh, and beside the weather, the settlers didn't know how to plant crops. So basically, they got a really good sublet. A furnished... Like a furnished sublet. They got a furnished pouch. Like they rolled in and they were like, man, everything's all fucking set up. Let's get some groceries in this bitch. Yeah. I love also love that no one was like, should we learn how to plant shit? Yeah. Nope. Let's just go. We're going to get into wearing wooden shoes. We got to go. We got to go. Move. God will figure it out for us. They didn't have enough supplies to last until spring. Jesus. They lived... Wildly unprepared. Yeah. They're fucking idiots. They lived in cities while in Holland and the rest were vegans so they didn't know how to fish or hunt. How did that not come up in a 66 day trip? How did it not come up in a year before the trip? How did it not come up? How did it not come up? Does anyone say, does anybody know how to hunter fish? All right. We're here. We're here to hunt. I think you just put your hand in the water and pull out a fish. No, no, no. You make kissing noises, dummy. It's just like whale hunting. So in their first month they caught exactly one fish. Oh, that's... And they shot no game. That's amazing. They caught one fish. That's amazing. One fish. They're living. Great play. Now there's a bite for everyone. Can I just say a great place to raise the kids to get away from all of the horrible Dutch place? It's good. You can tell these parents thought long term. At least not speaking Dutch while they're dying. We've really rescued him. Now dig a grave. They suffered from cold starvation and disease and half of them were dead by spring. The rest were... Less mouths to feed. Yep. The rest were... Smart. The rest were in danger as dying as well because of the whole not being able to plant and hunt and fish and stuff. Because they had a fish. They had a fish still. They had a fish still. I believe at this point they had eaten the fish. The whole thing? The whole thing. They must have been hungry. Gritty. They must have been hungry. One suddenly one day a lone Indian walked into the settlement and said in English, Welcome English. I am Somo said. Do you have any beer? What? What? That actually... That happened. That happened. A dude walked in and said, Do you have any beer? Like they found America's first frat dude. He had a fucking... He had like a beer hemmadon. Two straws coming down. I'm out. They called me keg stands. Do you have any more beer? And that meant her not to be Jim Belushi. That's amazing. He saved their asses. His name was Somo said. He brought Squanto on his next visit. Okay. Squanto was probably like, Oh good. More. Well, having no tribe, Squanto stayed to help. Squanto spoke English much better than Somo said and he taught them how to plant corn and how to catch fish until the first harvest. Squanto also helped the colonists negotiate a peace treaty with nearby Wampanoag tribe led by chiefs Massa Soet who he was living with. Right. So maybe they were right. Maybe there is a God. Because the coincidences that led to them being able to... Because they should have... Oh yeah. Oh no. They should have died. They should have just dropped the ship over and gotten off and died. Yeah. They should have died. Just laid down its sleeping bags and perished. Yeah. But fortunately for them, a Native American wanted beer. You see how beer is still just purely America. And also there is a God because Squanto had been kidnapped. Yeah. And then lived in England. He had been kidnapped again and then been a slave and then had to learn about Jesus and then went back to England and then went back to the New World and found out that every single person in his tribe had died of a horrible infection. So they really won the lottery. They clearly is a God. They really won the lottery. They first ever been proof of God. I mean they got the most English speaking native. Yeah. He just rolled into town. He was like, you guys look like you're dying. What's up, bro? Hey, you know, you don't play a chord like that. That is bullshit. John Winthrop, a founder of the Massachusetts Bay colony, considered the wave of illness and the death to be a divine miracle. I mean, what can't they put a shine on? He wrote to a friend in England, but for the natives in these parts God hath so pursued them for 300 miles space, the greatest part of them are swept away by smallpox, which still continues among them. So God hath thereby declared our title to this place. Those who remain in these parts being in all not 50 have put themselves under our protection. It's great. God, it's a great place. God was really involved, wasn't he? Yeah. And the impact of European diseases and the goodwill of the Wampanoag allowed the settlers to survive their first year, I mean, half. In celebration of their good fortune, the colony's governor, William Bradford, declared a three day feast called Thanksgiving after that first harvest in 1621. Right. So that's nice. That's a nice, yeah. That's nice. That's the Thanksgiving story. It's lovely. You like? Yeah, it's great. I mean, I think, you know, there's obviously a little more detail to it than I thought. No, that's it. That's the first Thanksgiving. Yeah, that's great. I mean, that's a lovely story. It's just like the original. Should I continue to the second Thanksgiving? Oh, what is it? Is that when Cranberry Sauce got involved? Oh, there's one that took place in the Manhattan colony, the colony in Manhattan. Okay, sure. I mean, I'm good, but if you want to... All right, let's just do it. Let's just do it. Let's just do it. I'm sure it'll be fine. Kick the can down the road a little bit. Fuck it. So Squanto became a big man on campus. All the tribes looked to him for advice and he was the go-between guy. And he used that to put himself in powerful positions. He was El Hefe. Okay. I don't know if he went by that name, but he was El Hefe. All right, yeah. He didn't exactly help the other tribes and even went so far as to tell them that the Europeans had barrels of plague stored under the buildings and would release them if they were provoked. Interesting. Interesting twist. Squanto's got a... They have barrels of plague. Barrels and barrels of plague juice. I've seen the plague juice. The god of the English had it in store and could send it at his pleasure to the destruction of his enemies. So the Indians remained in awe of and in fear of the pilgrims. Squanto also started a rumor that all the local Indian tribes are going to attack the pilgrims. Before anything happened, it was discovered that the rumor was false. Now the tribes wanted Squanto turned over so they could kill him because he had tried to start a war. Yes. And the pilgrims were like, no, he's too important. That's our Squanto. That's our... No, he helps us. Yeah. Oh, shit. Our Squanto. Squanto is still too valuable for their survival. He helped them up until November 1963 when he turned yellow and started bleeding from his nose. Wait, what year? 19... Oh, sorry. I got you. Jfk was president. So 1623. Okay. So, okay. Meanwhile, the pilgrims' survival led to a wave of colonists coming across the ocean. All right. Boston and Salem colonies popped up, Manhattan, up and down the East Coast. When the Puritans arrived, they merely discussed who owned the land. All right. It had to be decided because the European way of farming was based on individual ownership, which was completely contrary to what the tribal Americans believed. They believed that no one actually owned the land, like the tribe farmed it. Yeah. But it wasn't owned by anyone. Yeah. So, what's so much about it? I own that, if you be like, okay, and I own the air. Okay. Yeah, no take it. All right. And I own the air too, though. Okay. We all own the air. I own it. Okay. I have been in there. Okay. Enjoy the air. Give me money. Give me gold. Massachusetts Governor Winthrop declared the Indians had not quote, subdued the land. Therefore, all uncultivated lands should, according to English common law, be considered public domain. It is so crazy at any time to be like, but it's against our law, person who's never heard of us. I'm here, the laws are mine now. Like, just the nerve of being so brash. We have fences, well, and from do you not have fences? No, this is all mine. Yes, so this is mine now. Apparently, you're not familiar with our law, having been totally unfamiliar with us. I don't see lawns or corn, so I'm taking this. So there's that. I'm a fucking dick. Dick. This meant that all the land belonged to the king. This meant the colonists decided they did not need to consult the Indians when they seized new lands. They only had to consult the representative of the crowd. So should we maybe talk about the first Thanksgiving a little bit more? We're getting the second one. Sounds like a scarier Thanksgiving. It's better. So they would pull up and they'd see a bunch of land and they'd say, should we ask the guys who live here if we can have that? No, let's ask our guy who's back at a house. He says yes, we can take it. He says we can have it. Awesome. Just one minor problem. They're not happy. So they would just go to the local governor and say, hey, can I have the land? Those guys were here first for centuries, have been living on. And he would go, yep. The colonists embraced a line from a Psalm 2, 8. That's a great Psalm. Ask of me and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. OK, so I mean, it is written down. Therefore, it's mine. It's in a book. Someone wrote it down once. I got it in a book. I don't have a book. Nothing can just do whatever the fuck they want because of that Psalm. The guy I wrote that book didn't even know about this part of the world. That's crazy, the foresight of him. Oh, come on, it's mine. By 1637, there were about 2,000 British settlers. They pushed out from the coast and decided to remove the people who were living where they'd been living forever. Oh, that's sweet. Now the Puritan saw their religious colony as a model of social and political order that they believed all Europe should adopt. So remember, these are people who had rigid ideas. Yes. And so now they think that knowledge should the English be living their way, but now they're coming over and they're living that way. Right. They left England because they didn't like what the church was doing. So they were living a life everyone should be living now. Everyone should be living this way. Yes. Everyone. I'm doing this right. It makes sense. I'm doing this right. Do what I do. But in England, the Puritan movement was on the rise. Those who stayed were changing things. For instance, they killed the king, won a civil war, and set up a short-lived republic and brutally conquered Ireland. What else you want? And they were super intolerant. It doesn't sound like it. They were against the decadence of the rich aristocrats. They demanded extreme discipline, thrift, and modesty of each other. This brought about a new and emerging form of ownership and production. OK. The so-called Protestant ethic. All right. Was a new form of capitalism. And it was all about men, specifically the most powerful merchants. Cool. The Puritan fathers believed they were the chosen people of an infinite god and that this justified anything they did. Using this, they could fight for their right to accumulate power and prosper, while oppressing the masses of people, women, children, Indians, et cetera. Those who rejected the narrow religious rules of the colonies were often expelled out into the wilderness. Jesus. But I'm not really believing this. Out! Keep walking. Where am I? To the woods. Yeah, but the woods. Don't stop walking. Go in there! Even! Even! I think there's dragons. Go into the dragon area. There are dragons. We've confirmed it. It must be nice to be so stupid that you can believe all that shit. Right? Like to actually be, to have the balls, to think that you can literally, you're supposed to kill to get money. That's what you're here for. To be so stupid that you never question whether you're right. Never. And that's what it is. It's stupidity. It's a basic stupidity to not be able to question, am I doing the right thing? No, just knowing. In US school, students were taught that the Mayfire Compact of the Plymouth contained the seeds of modern democracy and the rule of law. It was actually the beginning of a capitalist democracy based on all kinds of oppression and serving the class interests of ruling capitalists. Yeah, but it's our democracy. Yeah, but it was the birth of what people now see as crazy America. Yes. Capitalism of the capitalist. Totally, yeah. It's a good thing we've got it under control now. And you can see how capitalism has sort of become the religion of us. Capitalism and religion are tied as almost as one. Now, in 1633, the powerful Pequaw tribe had not entered an alliance with the British. The nerve. Like the Merringan set and the Wampanoag and the Massachusetts tribes. Then the settlers stole the land where the city of Hartford now sits, which was Pequaw land. That's ours. What? Yeah, we just said it's ours. Dibs. Didn't see any crops. No, that's ours. Dibs. No, but that. Dibs. Sorry, we're calling dibs. It's our land. Get off of our land. Dibs. To make matters worse, the Pequaw had the gall to kill two British slave raiders who were trying to take them as slaves. Oh, the nerve. So two of you guys showed up. How dare they? They're trying to grab. They lost the fight. Some American dudes and take them away to be slaves. And they were like, OK, we're going to kill you. Well, I guess we've got to kill you. So the colonists were now pissed. Of course. You can't kill the people who are trying to take you as slaves. You're not acting like good slaves. You're basically like corn. Corn does not kill people. All right, now you're ours too. What if the corn started killing people, the people who wanted to eat the corn? We would have to get the corn. Do you understand? Listen, oh, shit, they're gone. I'm a person. Oh, good. So the Pequaw were like, oh, fuck off. Yeah. Do fuck off. We're not going to turn over. With all due respect, we're not going to be slaves. We're not going to turn over the quote killers. Yeah. Yeah. The colonial governments gathered an armed force of 200 and funny. 200 and funny. 200 and funny. 40 under the command of John Mason. OK. They were joined by 1,000 Narragansett warriors. Now here's the problem with, here was a big problem. So the tribes are always warring. Right. The big problem that they made was instead of all getting together and fighting the white men. Unionizing. Yeah. Fighting the Europeans, they decided, because they'd be like, OK, we can get rid of the Pequot, and then we can have their land. Short-term thinking. Very short-term thinking. Mason wanted to avoid attacking the Pequaw warriors because he didn't think he could win. Wow. Yeah. So instead, he decided to have a massacre. I'm sorry? He made a choice to have a massacre. Instead of choosing to fight the warriors, the other guys with weapons, he decided to just kill women and children. Go with. It served the same purpose. Yeah. He's, that's cool. He decided a massacre can accomplish the same goals. That's cool. Without the risk. What's a baby going to kill one of your men? You know, it's just that it's just. What would you rather fight? A 35-year-old guy or a four-year-old girl? Look, I don't want to add. What would you rather fight? I don't want to answer that because it's a four-year-old girl. Because a 35-year-old dude can fucking hit me back, or he can shoot me, or he can stab me. A four-year-old girl, I can punch in the face and drop. I can just fucking drop her. OK, you've sold me. Let's have this. OK. So the colonists surrounded a fortified Pequot village on the Mystic River. At that point, the village was basically a fort surrounded by wood on all sides. They were, because they knew what they were in for. So they built a fort, a giant wood fort. OK. A wood fort. At sunrise, as the inhabitants slept, the Puritan soldiers set the village on fire. Because it was wood, and it burnt. William Bradford, governor of Plymouth Road, those that escaped the fire were slain with the sword, some hewed to pieces, others run through, so that they were quickly dispatched and very few escaped. It was conceived they thus destroyed about 400. At this time, it was a fear for soldiers. At this time, it was a fear for sight to see the frying in the fire. Horrible was the stinking scent thereof, but the victory seemed a sweet sacrifice, and they gave the prayers thereof God, who had wrought so wonderfully for them. Oh, my God. Three chains for dead boys and girls. Oh, my God. Mason himself wrote. And God, they're thanking God. Thank you, God. Thank you for letting us burn down people. Thank you for that, God. Thank you for letting us burn as preschool. Mason wrote, it may be demanded, should not Christians have more mercy and compassion, but sometimes the scripture declares women and children must perish with their parents. We had sufficient light from the word of God for our proceedings. He said, killed. No, he didn't. And the God said. No, he did not, Mason. No, he did not. God said, kill the boys and girls. There you go. I'll justify it. Go. I'll justify it. Got the land that God wanted us to have. Yeah. Killed all the people God wanted us to kill. God. And so now we have more land. We can make more money. Money, money, money. All right. Today US history books call this the Pacoa War. That's cute. Even though it was a straight up massacre of women and children as they slept. They did take 180 captives. Now, what do you do? What do you do with 180 captives? This is a hard one. This is a hard one. You got 180 people. After consulting the Bible again. Oh, good. As long as they went to the Bible for the answer. Leviticus 2444, the colonial authorities found justification to kill most of the men. Good. Smart. OK. You got to read the fine print in the Bible. You really get in there. Yeah. Hey, could you find like something in there that says we can kill these guys? Actually, looking at Leviticus, I think we can kill them. Oh, Cheerio. Through that is. And they enslaved the captured women and their children. Now only 500 Pequot remained alive and free. OK. Slavery was not new to Americans. By the way, I'm also going to do a dollop on the Pequot. That's the point. And I'm probably saying it wrong. Pequot. Pequotters. It could be Pequot. Yeah. Because they aren't French, right? I can't Pequot. It could be Pequot. Yeah. Slavery was not new to the Americans. Good. Native people of North America had widely practiced taking war captives from other tribes as hostages and slaves. But now the colonialists came up with a brand new twist. Oh. New twist. The Romanian captives were sold to British plantation colonies in the West Indies to be worked to death in a new form of slavery that served the emerging capitalist world market. And with that, the merchants of Boston made a historic discovery. The profits they made from the sale of humans being virtually seized, they basically, the cost of taking them could be paid for by selling them. So it's just a very. Previously, if a native tribe fought another native tribe and they took slaves, they just used them to work and stuff. Yeah. But these guys were making. The first time people were making profit. The first time you were actually selling people. Right. Yeah. OK. Cool. Well, I'm glad that. So now it's a win-win. Well. Win-win. OK. But I would say. God, I got. OK. Sorry. In slaving, American Indians quickly became, quote, a mania with speculators. The slave trade first captured Indians and soon kidnapped Americans quickly became a backbone of New England merchant capitalism. Turns out you can do anything for money if you have God on your side. Well, God's been very clear. Very clear. Do whatever the fuck you want for money. Very clear. God. Meanwhile, down in the Manhattan colony, Dutch Governor Kleft offered the first scalp bounty. His government paid money for the scalp of each American brought to them. It's 25 cents. I don't even got more. It's 50 cents. Oh, look. I'm putting it on my head. Look at all of these pieces of people's heads. Here is $5. A couple of years. The reason being just to prove that they've killed them. A couple of years later, Kleft ordered the massacre of the Wappingers, which was a friendly tribe. So they're just in the way. But God was so clear. God was like, I get that they're totally cool, but they're on a thing you want, that land. I'm just worried they might not be cool forever. So let's nip this in the bud and kill them. Right. That's cool. 80 were killed, and their severed heads were kicked like soccer balls down the streets of Manhattan. One captive was castrated, skinned alive, and forced to eat his own flesh while the Dutch governor watched and laughed. What the fuck? What? What do you mean what? What? He was a, I'm sorry. He got castrated. He cut off his balls. Skinned. Skinned. And then they made him eat his skin. Right. While the governor laughed. Laughed? Yeah, it was fun. Oh my god. Do you know like parties? That is. Then Kleft hired the notorious Underhill, who had commanded in the Piqua War. There was a man called notorious at this time? He was, well, he wasn't, but he was the notorious Underhill. He was the Underhill. The village was set on fire, and 500 Indian residents were killed. Oh my god. Those were the friendly Indians. Then a day of Thanksgiving was proclaimed. No, no, cancel it. In the churches of Manhattan. Oh my god. Yay, Thanksgiving. How could you? Dong, dong, dong. Let's eat some turkey and pickle. How could you eat? How could you be eating? It's Thanksgiving, man. No. You just killed 500 people. No. You burned them alive. You made a dude cut off his balls and eat himself. Why are we still celebrating this thing? Why is this still a celebration? Let's have family with dinner. Why? Why is this still a day? What followed was war and more massacres. The American Indians fought back in King Philip's War, killing 10% of all the European men in New England. But they lost. After King Philip's War, there were almost no Indians left free in the northern British colonies. A colonist wrote from Manhattan's New York colony, there is now but few Indians upon the island and there is few no ways hurtful. It is admired by how strange do they have decreased by the hand of God. Oh, Jesus Christ. English first. They have decreased by the hand of God. Also, because we keep burning them alive. God. I mean, look at the hand of God setting this village on fire. I just wish it would be so great to walk around now and still have that attitude. I know. Nice coffee. Give it to me. God wanted me to have it. Cool car. I'm going to do whatever I want with it because, you know, hashtag God. Just go to someone's house. I live here now. Go to someone's house. Kill them all and go, look what God has done. God has blessed me with a lovely furnished two-bed apartment. It's amazing what God has done. God is mighty. Yay, God. Oh, wow. In Massachusetts, the colony declared a day of Thanksgiving in 1676, saying, there now scarce remains a name or family of the Indians. They're either slain, captivated, or fled. Reservations were created based on the model in Ireland, where they were designed for the wild Irish of Ulster in 1609 by Cromwell, one of the worst humans that has ever walked the earth. Cromwell was, of course, a Puritan. Oh, shocking. Yes. His assault on Ireland was very similar to the attacks on American Indians. That was because many of the soldiers who fought under Cromwell became immigrants to the New World. Oh, good. They brought with them Puritan barbarism, exported violence, something America still does to this day. At least it's held onto our roots a little bit. The first national celebration of Thanksgiving was called for by George Washington. And the celebration was made a regular holiday later by Abraham Lincoln during the Civil War. At the same time, he sent troops to, quote, suppress the Sioux of Minnesota. So wait, we didn't have Thanksgiving for 100 years. Well, there were Thanksgiving, but the Thanksgiving's were always, we killed a bunch of motherfuckers. Like the Thanksgiving were barbaric horror feasts because they had slaughtered people. The first one was because a bunch of people had died of a plague and they lived. Well, that one at the time didn't sound normal, but what a great one that was. Arguably our best one. Then the next one is when they've just fucking massacred. The one I like to remember where they made a man eat his own skin. What if instead of celebrating the first one every year on Thanksgiving, we cut off someone's head and kick it down the street? Different take. Like they did. Different take. God has blessed me with a beautiful head soccer ball. So the story of Thanksgiving celebrates the bounty of the American way of life while covering up the brutal nature of our society. By 1975, the official number of Pacquah living in Connecticut was 21. Oh, yeah. Happy Thanksgiving, buddy. Gobble, gobble. Gobble, pumpkin pie. Feel good? No. No. This is what I was afraid of. This is what I was afraid of is that it's almost like, it sounds horrible, but it's almost like fast food. You just don't want to know what's behind it. And then once you do, it's ruined. It's exactly like fast food. And so now, I mean, in less than a week, we got to stop. You've just watched food eat. Yeah. Oh, yeah, exactly. Yes. You can celebrate it. You just have to pretend like it's not about that. Yeah. I mean, well, I don't believe that God has blessed me with the meal. And that. Well, you're a vegetarian, right? Yeah. So you're not sitting down and going, this is great. We killed this thing. I mean, it's all fucked up. Yeah. Oh, look, yeah. That's why I'm a vegetarian. Yeah. I mean, the reason that we can sit here in America and be like, let's have a great meal in here is because somewhere a bunch of other people are getting completely fucked over. Well, and it's always the idea that you can just kill anything because it makes your life easier. Yeah, that's exactly right. And it's just like, what the fuck? That's not how it is. Yeah, that is how it is. That is how it is. That's not how it should be. Anyway, happy Thanksgiving. Thank you, David. Happy Thanksgiving, everybody. Enjoy your family. Yeah. And kill whoever. You kill your mom and dad. Kill your mom and dad. God wants you to.