 You're listening to the Dahlp. Each week I, Dave Anthony, tell a story from American history to my friend- Gareth Reynolds, who knows nothing about it. Absolutely nothing. Zero. I think if there's one, who we've proven. You know, now with doing the intro, it's harder for you to wedge in a lot of Gary's, which I love. Okay, I mean, I knew there'd be a response to that. I didn't think it would be a clown explosion. God, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one buck. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling clots, guys. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Frank. Hi, Gary. No, I see you've done my friend. No, no. Gary. Gary. Gary. Gary. Gary. This is a smallup. Oh, Jesus. How do you feel about smallups? I feel good about smallups. I know that what I know about smallups is that they're going to be pretty fucking crazy because you can find shorter things. March 3rd, 1876. Love the 1800s. It was a beautiful day in Bath County, Kentucky, and a local farmer's wife, Miss Crouch, was outside making soap. Oh, sure? Okay. I'm good on this one. I don't even know what that means or how you do it. I've seen a fight club. Yeah, yeah, exactly. I'm not sure what happened. Yeah, well, the first rule about soap making. Don't tell her. You don't talk about it. You tell people. You tell everyone how to make it. Yeah. That's only one rule. Who's making soap? It's so cute. Just some yard soap. She's making soap. Yard soap. Deal with it, bro. You don't make yard soap, bro. And naturally, the story begins with a woman making soap. This story begins how most stories begin with a woman making soap. Between 11 o'clock and 12 o'clock, I was in my yard, not more than 40 steps from the house. She told reporters. It's, by the way, already not good that she's telling reporters. It's never a good sign. No. It's never a good sign. No. There was a light wind coming from the west, but the sky was clear and the sun was shining brightly. Get to the story, lady. Nothing in, nothing in the sky. Yeah. Without any prelude or warning of any kind and exactly under these circumstances, the shower commenced. Finally, meat came raining down all around her. Okay. All right. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. I think this is one of the better beginnings to anything we've done. She's in her yard making soap when meat rained on her. Okay. All right. All right. Okay, when the flesh began to fall, did the forecast call for it? Was there any prep time? There was no, it's not in the almanac. That's terrible. There's a time of year when meat comes. Normally the Dopplers will pick that up. We're going to take a look at the five days you can see here. Sunday. We've got a big meatfront rolling in. A big meatfront rolling in. You guys down here on the coast, a lot of sirloin. You're going to get a lot of sirloin over here. Little further south, you guys are probably just going to get some ground chuck, something like that. Hopefully that'll be pushing out Monday. Looks pretty bright at the beginning next week, more than 11 o'clock. And then we'll talk about the chicken. Chicken. We'll talk about the chicken later in the cast. Yep. All right. We'll be right back with chicken updates. Oh, Jerry. I'm looking forward to the chicken. Oh, it's going to be bad. Yeah. Cancel your plans. This is really going to be a chicken rain. When the flesh began to fall, it's a really hard thing to say. Oh, no. It's normal. When the flesh began to fall, I saw a large piece strike the ground close by me with a snapping noise when it struck. The largest piece that I saw was as long as my hand and about a half inch wide. It looked grisly as if it had been torn from the throat of some animal. What the fuck is going on right now? Another piece that I saw was half round in shape and about the size of a half dollar. She said it felt like snowflakes. Has she felt snow? The pieces, for the most part, were not larger than snowflakes. Just meat droplets surrounding her. For several minutes, Crouch and her husband Alan watched as pieces of fresh raw meat, some delicate shreds as light as a snowflake, and others a solid lump three inches square fell from the sky. Okay. Okay. Mitch. Look, I mean, it's just... You are speechless. I mean, what the fuck is going on right now? She's really describing what the meat looked like, but I'm very curious. Miss Crouch said she was impressed with the conviction that it was either a miracle or a warning. Okay. Okay. You want to or should I? Let me just straight up say it's not a burial. Yeah, it's not a fucking... Unless you're starving to death. It's not a miracle. Unless you're starving to death. If you're starving to death and meat falls from a cloudless sky, that's a miracle. That's a miracle. Something happened. If you're making soap, it's a warning. Let's see if there are a miracle or a warning. What if it's just fucked up? I think it's just fucked up, lady. Oh my God, our prayers have been answered. We've been praying for sky meat all alone. Here come the meat, praise Jesus. Oh, the Lord listened to our prayers. He has given us a rib eye from the sky. The crotch is cat less concerned about meaning of the meat than his master has immediately gorged himself with the public breakfasts so unexpectedly tender to him. The cat is the real winner in all this. The cat's like, this is a miracle. Yeah, the cat's like, is this a warning or a miracle? Just if I can eat this. Kibbles and bits. Kibbles and bits. When it was over, the Kentucky meat shower as it came to be known, that's the greatest name that has ever been given. Yeah. A smaller or a dollar. The Kentucky meat shower. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it sounds. How's that not a movie? Or a band. How is it not a band? Kentucky meat shower. Holy shit. Yeah, I'd go see that. Come on. I'd go see them. It left an area of the farm yard 100 yards long and 50 wide strewn with flesh. Okay. All right. I mean, what the fuck? The shower drew plenty of attention and curious neighborhood. Why? What about it, David? Hey, Larry, come on over. Okay. Wow. Well, meat just fell out of the sky. I'm right here now. Oh, well, there you are. What the fuck? Yeah, meat from the sky. Your cat looks sick. It does, but this is a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. Sweet Lord answered our meat prayers. And then the Lord Jesus gave the people a meat wrinkle on the ninth day. He threw me through just a handful of meat. He just threw handfuls of meat. Newspapers reportedly flocked. Newspaper reporters flocked to the Cratch's farm to see the mystery meat and offer opinions on it. Many locals said this will be great. Many locals said it looked like beef, but one neighbor who was a hunter on being shown a piece of the flesh declared it to be bare meat and stated that had that uncommonly greasy feel peculiar to the flesh of that animal. Okay. A Miss Harrison Gill went and said, a Mr. Harrison Gill went and said he saw pieces of meat sticking to fences and scattered over the ground. When it first fell, it appeared perfectly fresh. Okay. But at this point, fresh bear meat is falling. So at this point when I'm reading the story, I'm thinking an animal exploded in the air. That's my scientific. Yeah. I bear a bear exploded. Yep. A flying bear. A flying bear exploded. At first I was like, well, maybe there's a tornado somewhere and it lifted up a bear and exploded him, but there's no clouds in the sky. Do we know what this is from? Am I going to find out what? I don't know. Because if I don't, I'm going to need some closure. It's really funny. You might not have closure. Are you serious? Yeah. So just fucking bear meat might have just dropped out of the fucking sky. We're going to get a lot of hypothesize. Oh, right. Hypothesis. Oh, good. Hypothi. Oh. God shook his beard. Others took it upon themselves to taste it. Okay. I get that. You get that? I get that. Fuck. Let me tell you something. If meat falls from the sky, the last thing I'm doing is picking up a piece and fucking chewing on it. Listen. Who's picking up meat that fell from the sky? I'm a vegetarian and I'm telling you, I have an asterix for sky meat. I'm going to taste that sky meat. This is fresh. It's like straight out of the sky. Man, this feels like exploded sky bear. Two men ate it and said it was either mutton or venison. A local? I mean, it is pretty crazy that they can't figure out what fucking animal it is. What is mutton? Is it mutton lamb? Is it? I believe mutton's lamb and venison's deer, right? Venison is, isn't that a baby cow? I think venison's deer. Is it? Yeah. Yeah, venison is deer. I'm from Brown Deer, Wisconsin. You should know because you're from hunting land. Yeah, venison is deer. I can't believe you don't know what mutton is. I would think that you guys are much constantly eating mutton. Well, listen, I wasn't a big mutton guy, okay? I was raised by English people, so it was like a lot of roasts, you know? You thought it was a nice thick stew every Sunday. What are we having? Leftover stew. Shepard pie, it fills the score. Yeah, shepard pie, exactly. Bubble and squeak. A local butcher who tried a piece declared that it tasted neither like flesh, fish, or fowl. It looked to him like mutton, but the smell was a new one. Well, I'm sure the smell was, you know, it had that sky smell. Yeah, it's lamb. You're right. There you go. Venison's deer. Mature sheep. Yeah, it's just sheep that you can go around and you say penis and they don't giggle, then you can make mutton. Okay. Okay. With no one able to identify the meat by sight or taste, the St. Louis Globe Democrat reported several large samples were gathered for study by a group of faculty members at Transylvania University. Okay. Now I don't know what's happening. Yeah, now I think it's safe to say that what is happening right now. I believe the vampires have come. The Sky Bear Venison Mutton meat is now being explored upon at Transylvania University, which is here. That's fine. We sent the meat to Transylvania University. They sent samples to chemists and others in various parts of the country and analysis were made by several well-known scientists. How can they not figure out what fucking meat it is? Well, it's crazy. A professor J.L. Smith initially thought that the meat was actually dried frog spawn that had been picked up from a pond by the wind, but he later abandoned the idea. Why? Because it was the craziest idea possible. It's probably flying frogs. Probably. It's probably. Okay. So here's what happened. There were frogs in a pond and a wind came and it blew them over and then they shredded. They just exploded. You know what, I back off. It's not a good theory. I'm going to back that one up. I'm going to back that one up. I don't know what I was talking about. I've been drinking. Leopold Brandy's writing in a journal called The Sanitarian. I mean, what in the fuck is happening? Just great. Claim that the Kentucky wonder is nothing more or less than the gnostic of an old alchemist, a strange-looking vegetable mass, now recognized as cyanobacteria, which is the real thing, I guess, consisting of translucent gelatinous bodies joined together by thread-like tubes or seed bears. So he's saying it's like a gross vegetable mass. The meat. Yeah. Okay. That there is not good. Right. Okay. A few other scientists concluded that their samples possess undoubted characteristics peculiar to the flesh of animals. It was indeed meat, but which kind was unclear. I have studied the meat and I have concluded that it is delicious meat. Meat. Questions. Questions. Will you be doing anything to answer the questions that we already wanted answered? It is meat. All right. We'll see you later. Dr. LD Kastinbein, a chemist at Louisville College, heated one sample over a Bunsen burner and noted that it had an odor distinctly like rancid mutton suet on warming and after ignition had the characteristic smell of burned animal tissue. So he cooked it and came to the conclusion that it was meat. Yep. So far it's still meat. He also treated some pieces in chemical solutions which helped expose muscle fibers and connective and fatty tissues. Quote, as the specimen was not placed in alcohol, the odor was retained, which a number of meat experts pronounced without hesitation mutton, he wrote. Since my examination, I have learned that others have arrived at the same conclusion as myself. Some even asserting that the wool of the animal was distinctly seen. So lamb. An exploding lamb. Drs. Alan McClain Hamilton and J. W. S. Arnold agreed that the flesh had come from an animal, but it wasn't mutton. Jesus Christ. It's not, it is. Hey, sky meat is going to fucking bring up a lot of questions. You know if there's sky meat, it's going to be a lot of different theories. Sky meat doesn't lead to one place. Yes. If only we had access to St. Martin still, we would be able to determine what this is by fishing in his belly. They're examining a piece under a microscope. They identified it as lung tissue from either a horse or human infant. Christ. What? Exploding babies is a possibility now. How? Okay. A human infant? Just how? The lungs of a human infant? So that's your conclusion. Is that somehow the lungs of a human infant exploded over a house. You didn't let me finish. The frogs brought them there. Well look, there's been a lot of cases of flying human infant lungs and I think this one just hit a helicopter. My question is about when you said there's been a lot of. Flying around. I'll see you later. Flying around. Quote, the structure of the organ in these two cases is very similar between human lungs and human infant lungs. Oh my God. Dr. Meade Edwards. Dr. Meade Edwards. Oh God, if his name was Dr. Meade Edwards and he, I just also meet. You got to bring me on this loop. I don't know if you're the right one for that. I was made for this one. I don't know. What's my name? Dr. Meade. But it does it. Okay, come on, Lou. Put me on this one. You can try a little Dr. Meade. He examined three different samples. Two in the natural state as they fell and one prepared and mounted for the microscope. The mounted specimen and one of the others he determined were bits of cartilage, while the last piece was composed of striated muscular fibers along with what appeared to be dense connective tissue. Can I just say how fucking far off the lung guy was? Yo, lung guy's out of his mind. While the condition of the samples prevented him from identifying the source of the flesh, Edwards concluded that all of the specimens proved to be of animal origin, showing that the Kentucky shower was a veritable meat shower. Meat shower. But if it was meat, where did it come from? That's what I want to know. William Livingston Alden, writing in the New York Times, offered two different explanations. The first was the obvious conclusion that the deluge of meat was a bizarre form of meteor shower. Meteor shower. It was a meteor shower. According to the present theory of astronomers, an enormous belt of meteoric stones constantly revolves around the sun. When the earth comes in contact with this belt, she is profoundly pelted. Similarly, we may suppose that there evolves about the sun, a belt of venison, and other meats divided into small fragments which are precipitated upon the earth whenever the ladder crosses their path. Okay, so the first theory is meat stars. Right, and it's space meat. Space meat. So the first theory is crazy. No, space meat's a very... That could be where this goes. You don't know where this goes. It could be space meat. How do you know there isn't space meat? I mean, I just... There's not... There's not space... There's not... How do you know there isn't space meat? Open your fucking mind. We're talking about meat showers right now. Maybe there is... It's all on the table. Space meat. Space meat. By the way, that's in the movie Understeller, not to do a spoiler. But they do go through a... Do they? Yeah, they go through a band of meat. Really? Oh, I was like, what the fuck? Oh my God. No! No! Then they go through a broccoli band. What did you... Yeah! A more probable explanation suggested by the Crouches and chemist Robert Peter and supported by Castenby, Edwards and Smith. Okay, so we have sort of a consensus. Yeah, okay. Was that the meat shower was simply vomit produced by a passing flock of vultures. Ugh, so... Who had been feasting themselves more abundantly than wisely on a carcass. So just a pack of bulimic vultures. Vultures actually do vomit. Do they do it in sync? To lighten the load if they feel threatened and need to make a quick getaway. I like this one. The most likely theory of the Kentucky meat shower is that a group of vultures barfed in flight, ranting bits of freshly eaten horse meat down on Mrs. Crouch. Why did they vomit in flight? It may be that one of them spontaneously vomited and because of their instinct and the fear when threatened, then the others did so reflexively, just in case. The vultures primary mode defense is actually vomiting on threats. Wow! Its primary form of defense is regurgitating semi-digested meat of foul-melling substance which deters most creatures' intent on raiding a vulture nest. It will also sting if the predator is close enough to get the vomit in its face or eyes. Jesus! This would explain the melange of muscle, connective tissue, and fat that was recovered. It would also, unfortunately, mean that a cat and a bunch of people were eating bits of half-digested meat off the ground. Whatever the meat was and wherever it came from, you can see a bit of it yourself. The Monroe Moustich Medical and Science Museum at Transylvania University in Lexington has a preserved piece of meat from the shower in its collection. I want someone who listens to go look at that. Yes. Someone who's gotta be in Kentucky near there. If you're in Lexington, go to the Transylvania University and look at the meat. That's crazy! Yeah, how about that? Crazy! Meat shower. That's crazy! And that the only theory we have that works is that a bunch of vultures puke. Yeah. It's tremendous. It's crazy. It's tremendous. Well. Happy meat shower. Meat shower. Meat shower. Meat shower.