 Welcome to the dollop, a historical podcast. Each week I, Dave Anthony, tell my friend, Gareth Reynolds, a story from history. And I have no idea what the topic is. No you don't. I messed that one up a little bit but it's- You said my name. It's so nice to hear you say Gareth. Gay! We're E-Randals. Yeah. Oh my God, do you want to look here to do it? I'll do one bottle. Oh, really? This is funny? Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to Tickly Quadcast. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to Mingle and do what? Pray. Oh, hi Gary. No. Is he dead, my friend? No. No. No. No. No. The year was 1696. Interesting little time, huh? All right. Samuel Whitmore was born in Charleston, Massachusetts. Massachusetts. Massachusetts. Massachusetts. All righty. It is amazing that anyone survived from what we know about the world back then. Well, I will agree with that. Yeah. So already he's amazing. Yep. He's alive in this time. But there's not much to talk about until he's 50. At that point, he served as a private in Colonel Jeremiah Moulton's Third Massachusetts Regiment, where he fought in King George's War in 1744 to 1748. Okay. He served as a captain in his majesty's dragoons, a unit of elite British cavalrymen, much feared across the globe for their fierce fighting abilities. Okay. That was a war against the French and American Indians, King George's War. Yep. I started to read about it, and then I kind of gave up on it because it involved just a lot of fucking countries and people, and I got confused, and I don't have that kind of time for a small up. Fuck them. So King George's War, the Austrians were involved. Good. The Austrians. Good. Fighting the French in Canada during the War of Austrian Succession. Right? Yeah. Right. You want to read more? No. I continue. My interest are peaked. Don't stop. Whitmore was part of the British contingent that assaulted the frozen shores of Nova Scotia and clobbered the French at their stronghold of Louisbourg in 1745. He was a cavalry officer and went into battle, galloping at the head of a company, and emerged from the flames and smoke and ruins of Louisbourg holding a gaudy and over-decorated longsword he had taken from the lifeless hands of a French officer. Jesus. He had, in Whitmore's words, quote, died suddenly. Right. Yeah. That's all he said. Well, you know, that'll happen when someone's taking your sword. He then spent a brief period on board a ship that was hunting for a pirate. Well, that's just a great thing to find. Yeah, that's a resident. That's something you put on the high part of the resident. It also is something that you find with a lot of guys that you're looking through history. Any guy who was fighting, there's always a sentence that goes, and he was looking for a pirate. He was also part-time pirate hunting. Because they were idiots, Britain returned Louisbourg to the French, who spent years in a fortune rebuilding and rearming the fortifications. Then in 1758, the British decided to retake and forever demolish Louisbourg during the Seven Years War. Okay. Which, in the colonies, was called the French Indian War because it was against French and the Indians. Also, it was a nine-year war, so they didn't want to call it a seven. Anyway, math. We were better at naming them, at least. We were better at math, so we called it a different name. We don't acknowledge those two years. Can we call it the Seven Years War? Well, it was nine years. No, it's a Seven Year War. Okay. I hate Americans. We figure it's seven. Whidmore was always ready to drop his farming tools, pick up his weapons, and march off to battle. So, he returns to Louisbourg and ruthlessly crushes the French once again. Just for shits and gigs? Yeah. They were like, let's go fucking do it again. So, they go up there to do it again. Serving under the British commander, James Wolfe, Whidmore once again, ruined the French and stole everything he'd get his hands on. He served valiantly, pounding the city into rubble a second time in a bloodbath that would mark the beginning of the end for France's Atlantic colonies. Quebec would fall shortly after, and the French would be chased out of Canada forever. Whidmore remained with the wrecking crew, which I love. He just hung around watching the city get totally leveled. So he's 64. Holy shit. He's 64 at this point. And the average death back then is like, three, three or four. Oh, he's an old man. How old is he? Four. He's four. He lived a good life. He lived a good life. I mean, I'm three. My back hurts as well. I'm getting up there. We're gonna have to bury him. Three. Don't think I can take it. Lost all my teeth. Oh, boy. A year later, Sam marched to Oregon, this time winding up in Quebec, where he fought for General James Wolfe against French General Louis Joseph Marquis de Montcombe. Oh, fuck that guy for having a long time. In 1763, Ottawa Chief Pontiac. There we go. We got to name a car after. Yes. A car. Led an uprising in the wild, distant lands that would one day become Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Whitmore was then 68. So what the fuck? And still looking for action. He's like, dude like to fight. Jack LaLaine. Are you gonna retire? Fuck no. Fuck no. Retire's gonna be. Let's go. What is he doing? Fuck you, very kindly. Move, man. Move. What the fuck was I just talking about? Who are we fighting? Gimme a gun or a shoot. That's it. I'll fight you. I'll fight the next guy who doesn't tell me who we're not fighting. Hold on. I'll shit my pants. Am I? The get off my lawn war. He's just spitting out teeth at him. There's another one. Fuck yourself. His sons and grandchildren were ordered to stay at home and work on the farm with his crazy decorated French sword and other weapons. Ridmore rode away on a rickety horse. He returned in triumph months later on one of the best stallions ever seen and carrying a matched pair of ornate dueling pistols. Jesus Christ. He's just, he's so weird. Where is he going? He goes to war and he just gets a bunch of shit and he comes back. Alright, we'll see you later. What's up? I'm 70 now. Look at this shit I got. Look at this horse. And the cannon no less. My God, where were you? I don't even remember. I don't remember shit. I got a laser. What's a laser? I'm time traveled. Here's my friend a dinosaur. I'm 81. The former owner of the dueling pistols, an enemy officer, had quote, died suddenly according to circumstances. Dinos thing. Keeps happening. Every time a guy has nice stuff, you know, that's it. He dies around me. After serving in three American wars before America was even a country, Whitmore decided to settle down in Massachusetts. So over his life he married two different women, had eight kids and built a house. Who knows how many grandkids he had. Yeah. You have eight kids, you got it back then. Yeah, yeah. He just, everyone keeps fucking. Yeah. We're all related to him. Whitmore proved to be just as aggressive in private life as in war. I'm excited by that sentence. During a heated election contest in January 1741, he loudly declared that one of the contestants for public office, the proud Colonel Roderick Shipley Vassal, was no more fit for the office than Sam's elderly horse Nero, whose value he assessed at less than five pounds. Nero. You are as worthy as my horse Nero, who's worth five bucks. Go fuck yourself. It's not enough to say that he's a fucking as shitty as a horse. You're a bad horse. Yes. You're a horse that's worth nothing. You're not a good horse. The infuriated Colonel promptly but illegally had Whitmore jailed. That I love. That's amazing. And you're in jail for what? You said bad things. You should not talk to me like that. While Sam was fuming in his cell, Vassal sued him for defamation of character. The ensuing trial was a heated and well attended one. Right? He was selling tickets. Yeah. Let's hear Sammy. Yeah. Whitmore, who made an admirable witness for himself, won his case. Well, I said it because you're a cunt. So is that a legal word? Yes. We the jury agree he's a cunt. There you go. Whitmore promptly sued the arrogant Colonel for false arrest after another sterling performance the court gave Whitmore the equivalent of $6,000. Oh, great. So Jesus. He called, he said a guy was as good as a shitty horse and ended up getting six grand. Which is a lot of horses. Which is the best story ever. Yeah, yeah. If it ended there. Oh, no. All of this was before Samuel Whitmore became a national hero. Okay. He became famous on a midday in April 1775. The British colonies were tired of King George and decided to go their own way. Samuel decided to fight on the side of the colonies. On April 19th, 1775, approximately 1800 British troops marched from Boston to Concord to capture a reported store of colonial munitions. At Lexington, Green, they were confronted by about 50 militiamen who carried a variety of weapons some decades old, some manufactured by village blacks, men and gunsmiths, but all in working order and capable of killing. On order to disperse, the Minutemen said no, no, we're good. And firing began that resulted in eight Americans killed. The rest left the scene as ordered by the officers and the British then reformed their ranks and continued marching to Concord. So the British won that one. On their arrival in Concord, where alerted citizens watched their every move, the British troops searched for but did not locate any of the munitions, which were cleverly hidden. Saying that the Minutemen were swarming toward them from as far away as Worchester and realizing that the munitions were too hidden to be found without a lengthy search, the British began an orderly retreat toward Boston. This was not easy because the Colonialists weren't fighting fair and the British were walking around in bright red coats, which by the way, just as you can see from Garrus reaction still makes Americans laugh and will always make us laugh until the end of our time. Just walking around in bright red coats, wear it more, wear it more. And then this guy's in the trees like, okay, ping, ping, ping. No, no fair. Excuse me. You're not allowed to shoot from the forest. Right. Now you're all wearing different things. What are you going for? What's the ensemble? Rags or some shit. Would you like to talk to our tailor? You need some proper war clothes. So they were constantly harassed by militiamen hiding in the trees and shooting at them. The worst harasser of all was one Captain Sanio Whitmore. Here we fucking go. Now how old? Okay. He's 80. He's 80. He's a crazy old man at this moment. So he's 250 in today's world. Yes. He's like Clint Eastwood in the shitty movie about racism and that El Camino. He's 80. He's this crazy old asshole. 80. 80. Like ready to fight. I'm ready to fuck people up. When the Redcoats came marching back through his hometown of Minotoni, Minotomi, Whitmore was working in his field. He knew nothing of the British invasion and the deaths at Lexington. Oh my God. But he spotted an approaching British relief parade led by Earl Percy. Whitmore decided he was going to do something about it. Oh my God. So he doesn't even know. That they've invaded. That there's a war on. But he sees them marching and he's like, well fuck this shit. Like somebody could come up to him after this probably and be like, well we're even with him now. And he's probably like, who were they? What? What do you mean? Oh, they did? Oh shit. Did I start a war or was one already going? One was already going. Okay, good. I didn't even realize they killed. Yeah, yeah. No, I knew. No, I knew about it. No, I knew about it. So, Whitmore all alone positioned himself behind a stone wall, waited in ambush and then single handedly engaged the entire British 47th regiment of foot with nothing more than his musket. Well, he had a couple of things. He fired off his musket at point blank range, ending one Red Code gentleman right on the spot. But muskets take 20 seconds to revive. Yeah, right. So you get a one time deal and he took care of that guy. So he quickly drew his twin dueling pistols, which again, he was left in an inheritance. And he had to remove some poor bastard who died. Natural causes. He shot two more Red Codes killing one Grenadier and mortally wounding a second. Okay. Okay, so he's killed three guys. So far he's just killed three guys. Like 10 seconds. He's killed three guys. And his reasoning is just they were walking a little aggressively from my liking. Well if these guys are marching here, they gotta be a war. Yeah, for sure. A British detachment charged and that's when Whitmore pulled out his French sword. Shut the fuck up. And he's 80. Let's get down to business. What? Let's get down to business. Life with that. Okay. Don't change the thing. Let's get down to business. He's 80. You've been Whitmored. It's 80. The 80 year old man stood his ground in hand to hand combat against a couple dozen trained soldiers. What? All of whom who could have been his grandchildren. That's how young they were. You run. If you see this, you fucking run. A crazy old man with this, crazy old men are terrifying. Yes. Let's put that out there. The crazy old man in your neighborhood is always much scarier than the young guy. For sure. They're just fucking scarier. But here's where I would run. Like a crazy old guy shooting people, that probably happens every day in this country. Yes. A crazy old guy defeating people with a sword, that's where you're like, oh, oh boy. It did not end well. Well, I mean, I would hope it doesn't end well. But it's begun crazy. Whitmore was shot in the face, knocked down and bayoneted 13 times. Which by the way, back then bullets were like monstrous. So when you got shot in the face, it's like being shot with a doorknob. Like they're fucking crazy. It's not like a little bullet. No. It's like a fucking slug. It's like lead. Yeah. So he got shot in the face. So you are, so it's like shooting Hurtmore. Getting shot. Picker holes, Hurtmore. Unless you can shot by an exploding bullet, one of those things. Well, those, yeah. So he was credited with three kills on the day. The Brits left him for dead, bleeding all of the road and marched off. I like that you say left him for dead. The entire way they had to, the entire way they had to fight with his fellow militiamen. Well, and their entire march, they just keep getting shot from the fucking bushes and they don't get off the road and they keep marching in their little square. They don't change their fucking clothes. When his friends rushed out of their homes to check on his body, they found a half dead old man still trying to reload his weapon and seek vengeance. Oh God. I was sitting in a puddle. I don't know. No, put the gun down, grandpa. No, I'm going to get those cops. No, no, no, all that. I'm going to get those. If I could just get a couple more bullets in that. Hey, tell them they forgot something to get back at a center britches. Get that center britches. Whitmore was taken to Dr. Cotton Tufts. Okay, so you have at it. You want it? What do you want me to do? How do you want to do it? You can have that one. Okay. What the fuck? And he's a doctor? He was taken to Dr. Pillow's bed. You know what you probably need is some tough cotton in there, Jesus Christ. That's all you say. He's dying. Maybe a little cotton in there. We had a son. What should we name him? Cotton. What? Cotton. What? Goodbye. Hello, I'm Dr. Cotton Tufts. Okay. All right. Get the giggles out. I'm Cotton Tufts. I get it. I get it. Cotton. I get it. No, I got it. I heard it. No, it's not pillow beds. It's Cotton Tufts. It's a little aggressive. So he was taken to Dr. Cotton Tufts of Medford who took a look at him and said, well, this guy's fucked. He's dead. This guy's dead. He's not happening. Medically speaking, he's fucked. Roll him out in the backyard. It's over. Whitmore disagreed. Samuel Whitmore didn't die. He ended up surviving the entire war, finally dying in 1793 at the age of 96. Shut the fuck up. Do you know what he died of? Being tremendous. Yeah. God wanting to meet him. The first guy to die of being awesome. He lived after that shit. He got shot in the face. He got bayoneted 13 times. 13 times. Yeah. He's 80. That's a guy. All people now at 80 die from falling over all the time. It's like the number one death of old people. Honest to God, if a man got stabbed, if a man was 80 years old, he must have 13 times. He lived, he would read about him in paper. Oh yeah. No, without a doubt. In 2005, he was declared an official state hero by the Massachusetts legislature. In 2012? 2005. Oh, 2005. Good. We got around to that fast. Yeah, it took a little while. They built a monument where he had his skirmish. It reads, near this spot, Samuel Whitmore, then 80 years old, killed three British soldiers, April 19, 75. He was shot, bayoneted, beaten and left for dead, but recovered and lived to be 98 years old. Suck it. Yeah. I don't think the suck it parts on it. But it should be. Shouldn't be. And there should be a little more context to it, honestly. Yeah. They should really just express that he really just didn't like the vibe and knew nothing. He just was like pretty sure there were British soldiers. Yeah, he was super anti-vibe. The whole vibe was just not, not dead. I don't like what your vibe is. And he's there with his fancy decorated sword. Well, the truth is too, the sword and those guns were probably burning a hole in his pocket. He was probably like ready to discharge from that shit. He always wanted to kill people. He just, he always wanted to kill people, and then they're just walking by his house. And he's 80. He's 80. He's probably like, what else do I have? He doesn't know he's going to live to 91. And we actually have no idea if he wounded any of those guys with a sword. But you know he did. You know he got some fucking wax in. You don't bayonet a guy 13 times if he's not good with it. Like if you're not like, die for sure. Right. No, he fucked some people up. He totally fucked some people up. God bless him. That is sweetie. Yeah, that's a small up. That's lovely. Beautiful. Anything else? No. Merry Christmas. Get your shopping done. Wait, that's early. Consume. Consume. Consume and buy. Merry Christmas. Consume.