 Hello, welcome to the Dallup, a historical podcast. Basically what happens is every week I, Dave Anthony, read a story from history to my friend, Gareth Reynolds, who knows nothing about it. Gary. I mean, I literally just said Gareth. God, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come with tickly quad guys. Okay. You are queen fakie of Hade uptown. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I see you've done, my friend. No. No. I did right after the Gary, then I stopped the recording. That's bullshit. Why? You know why. It works for me. Yeah. I'm not surprised that it works for you. Master of the board. Cool. Well, congratulations. I'm happy for you. You must be very happy. LAPD. All right. Los Angeles Police Department. I'm ready. I'm ready for more. Episode three. Okay. Of four. LAPD month is halfway, it's over the halfway mark now. Yeah, this is three, right? Oh, three of four. Three of four. Yeah. You know, numbers work, correct? Dude, come on. I was trying to help you. I thought you made a mistake. That's weird. What? Mistakes. Dude. August. In August 1966. Okay. Charles Joseph Whitman climbed a tower on the campus of the University of Texas at Austin and shot 47 people killing 15. Right. The incident took place during a 90 minute span and police officers were not equipped to handle the situation. Local Texans came to the aid of the police and they shot at the sniper with their own guns giving cops cover to eventually climb the tower and reach Whitman's position and kill him. Just how you drew it up in the squad room. So you wanted it to work. And then we'll get Larry over there and then we'll be overwhelmed by the situation and strangers will come and help and then we'll sneak in. All right. That's what I was. There we go. That's lunch guys. You think people can hear the dog? Is that a dog upstairs or is that a dog? No, I think he's I think he's outside. I might guess is he might be downstairs. He sounds like a German Shepherd. He's a big dog. Yeah. So there might be a dog in the background and you're welcome. Now this people yelling. I don't think you can hear that. Okay. So after that the Los Angeles Police Department struggled to deal with rioters during the 1966 Watts riots. Oh boy. Officers found that traditional police and riot control tactics were ineffective against the chaotic nature of the mob. Right? Yeah. I read that and I was like so it reminds me of the end of of a animal house when all is well and the guy like blowing his whistle and everyone just running around. That's how you imagine the police. Yeah. Just not being able to handle that situation at all. It's great too because you'd think that they would at this point be a little bit better at it but clearly. Nope. They still had no idea. Still like shit. They knew they knew something had to change but they weren't sure what it was. Okay. A month after the Watts riots officer Ron Mueller of the LAPD was sent to a house on Surrey Street to answer a disturbance call. Okay. A man inside Jack Ray Hoxie opened the door and shot Mueller with a high powered rifle. Not a nice guy. Mueller crawled away badly wounded. Another officer pulled up in his car and he was immediately shot. Okay. So don't officers don't go there anymore. Right. No. No. Sorry. All units respond. Call one out. Every cop in the area speeded to the house. By the time Inspector Darrell Gates arrived there were 50 cops there and it was total chaos. Okay. Hoxie was very well armed and he was going from window to window shooting at the police. Jesus. The cops were responding with hails of inaccurate shots. Good. Because they're all using their pistols and shotguns like they have nothing. Are you are you four feet close? Are you close? Show yourself. Where's something reflective? When a third officer was shot Gates believed it came from another cop. So they're just completely there. If they're surrounding the house. If they're surrounding the house and shooting at it. Some bullets. You could just shoot through the house and shoot at the cop. We're just totally missing shooting at the guy in the car. As the one guy in a house with a bunch of artillery you are like this is going pretty fucking well. They are shooting each other which I was not sure is going to happen. But it's great. For me I'm not going to be on my wildest dreams at this point. I know this doesn't end well but I will say it's going pretty good. By the time tear gas was fired there were so many holes. Okay wait when the third officer blah blah blah. The police were firing slugs from shotguns that were so heavy they were smashing through wooden walls of the house and then through the roof of the house. So by the time the tear gas was fired. By the time the tear gas was fired. There were so many holes. It's just like a cartoon cowboy who got shot a bunch and drinks water. Like tear gas was completely ineffective. All the tear gas just went out of the house. This guy really must just be sitting there like alright. Yes. It's like he's in a cartoon. They're tear gassing other cops. That's what they said. Stop it it's all blowing out. You're making some of us emotional. Which by the way is something I wish came attached to tear gas. Oh yeah emotional. It was like it was a weepy thing. Well they have tried to make bombs like that that make people emotional. Really? Yeah yeah. You know there was a gay bomb right? We'll do a small one. Yeah I mean you can't just tell me you know there was a gay bomb right? No I don't know that there was a gay bomb. I thought the gay bomb was when Ricky Martin said he was a homosexual. What? Oh boy. Oh we got to shut down. Oh boy. Finally one cop dressed in low grade basic body armor had had enough. He smashed through the house and shot Hoxie. Now that's all it said in everything I read about this incident was that he smashed through the house. It never did it say the door. So the house could have been such Swiss cheese that this guy just ran through a wall and shot the guy. Big fan. Big fan of Kool-Aid in the house. Right? Yeah. It's a total Kool-Aid. It's how you do it. He Kool-Aid the shit out of it. He was in a big picture. Yeah. A big purple picture. What did you say body armor you mean he was in a big picture that made it look like he was. He ran in and smashed through the wall. He yelled Kool-Aid and shot the guy. Kool-Aid. The guy was like I love Kool-Aid. After the incident Darrell Gates decided the LAPD was going to have to figure out a way to deal with snipers and barricaded criminals besides riddling houses with bullets. Oh boy. It was becoming you know Texas it was happening starting this year starting to happen. The days of the cartoon assault was ending. Okay. No more shooting up houses in the Swiss cheese. All right. We're shifting tactics. Gates decided the LAPD had to come up with some better way to respond and he sat down with other officers to look at counterinsurgency warfare training and tactics. Oh boy. Jesus Christ. Like those being developed in Vietnam. Oh my God. Right. Not good. Are you in? No. No I'm not in. No I'm not in. No. Do we have to yell Charlie first? What do we do? So what so when you make the earlobe necklace I have a couple questions about lobe about lobe jewelry. Uh huh. You I the best the best lobe jewelry we have found is it South Central there's some pretty good lobe. Okay. Boil heights. You get some right. Lobe. No I have a couple of those lobes. Yeah. An echo park. It makes them great lobes there. Actually those lobes are really hot right now. Super lobe. In 1965 officer John Nelson came up with the idea to form a special specially trained and equipped unit to respond to and manage critical situations while minimizing police casualties. Inspector Gates approved the idea. It was called SWAT. Oh Jesus Christ. SWAT was originally a term created by the Philadelphia Police Department as an acronym for their special weapons and tactics squad in 1964. Okay. So Gates took SWAT but he wanted it to stand for special weapons attack team. E. A deputy on his force said you can't use attack. Yeah. Cause we're the cops. Right. Might give the wrong message. The whole attack thing is not what we're supposed to do. It's aggressive. It's aggressive. And so Gates was like yeah that's a good point. So we'll use the other one. Okay. Special weapons. I don't even know what they end up calling it. How do I not know what SWAT is? I didn't put that in here. Special weapons. Wait. Special weapons. At a boy team. Yay team. I don't know if they're gonna need it. Special weapons. At a team. I never put it in here. I just assumed that I would remember it but everybody knows my memory is like a... Your memory is a lot like that guy's house after the assault. I'm pretty close to Reagan. Man. I'm excited. I'm excited for the Reagan years of the dog. Okay. So they went with it. It's just special weapons and tactics. They kept the same thing. Right. And Spectre Gates formed a small select group of volunteer officers. His first SWAT team was born LAPD SWAT deep platoon of the Metro Division. Okay. You down with that? No, I'm not down with any of this. We'll sure. Yeah. This SWAT unit was initially 15 teams of four men each for total staff of 60. Gates and others in the LAPD studied guerrilla warfare tactics of the military. SWAT officers were given special status and benefits but in return they had to attend monthly meetings. Okay. So that's... Yeah. It's not... No, it's not good. Don't nod at me like we're homies. It's all good. It's not all good. We're working shit out. No. No. The second thing you're going to... I mean, it's just not surprising that recently we saw our police force militarized based on... I don't know what you're talking about. Yeah. Well, you do. We talked about Ferguson. We did a whole fucking thing on it. The officers trained with the Marine Corps at Camp Pendleton and other military experts was brought in to teach SWAT how to deal with sniper fire, which... Just watch TV. What do you mean how to do a sniper fire? You just get in another position and you shoot the sniper. You sniper. You bring a fucking sniper to... Yeah, you sniper back. Exactly. You re-sniper the sniper. Yes, you sniper back at the sniper. There's not a lot of hide, don't get shot, don't run out in the circle. Look, it's... So what? It's a waiting game. It is a waiting game. Wait a little time. Crawl into place. Yeah. That's how they shot planet Earth. Make a perimeter. Wait, what? That's how they shot planet Earth. Sometimes you'd have to hunker down for three months to get the right shot. You know? I didn't know that. Yeah, I'm doing a dollop about it. Right now, inside your dollop. They also bought heavy weapons. One of the things the LAPD considered buying was a 20-ton armor personnel carrier that could be equipped with a 30-cow machine gun, tear gas, and grenade launchers, but unfortunately the LAPD couldn't afford the $35,000 price tag. I'm glad the reasoning is that it was too pricey. Instead of the fact that it's completely insane. Yeah, no, no. Hey, you know what? We had this house. Hey, maybe next year. Hear me out. There's a guy in the house and he killed it. He shot a couple cops and then we were all trying to get him. I was thinking it'd be better if we had grenade launchers. Well, no. And just a big machine gun that can cut a roof off a house. No. No to those. Okay, so we're getting that. We're not getting that. Okay, that's it. It feels like you're not listening. The first swat cops. Shut that door. Here about this. The first swat cops were treated poorly by regular LAPD officers. Ah. Here's a quote from Gates. For a long time, they were treated as persona non grata within the department. That swat operates like a quasi-militaristic operation offended some of the brass. I try to explain the difference. Whereas the military will go in with boozookas and blow the place apart, swaps made objective is to always get everyone safely out. If anyone gets injured or killed, the operation is a failure. I pointed that out to Novale. Banished from everyday police circles, we kept our training secret. Whoa. That's crazy. But so this goes to your point. The cops back then knew there was something wrong with swat. Yeah. And eventually over time, it became ingrained within the police thinking and then they acquiesced and allowed it to become part of the thing. But originally the cops were against it because they knew it was fucked up. And now arguably my guess is that cops want to be swat. All want to be swat. Yeah. Like that you're like that you pine for that position. Yeah. I love that no one would talk to them. You fucking swatty. Hey swat. Okay. Hold my dial, swat. Here comes swat. Yeah. How you doing? Get over here and put your head in the toilet. My name's Michael. Okay, swat. God damn it. What are you gonna do? Are you gonna do blow my door off? No. Are you a big tough guy with your tank or whatever? We don't have a tank. We couldn't afford it. Yeah. We do it the old fashioned way. Yeah, I know. We worked together for two years. You beat up black people. Yeah, I am aware of what you do. On the streets. I know that you're like, what are you supposed to do when you're a cop? Back in my day, we just had to beat up black people. We would just go out and say, where are the browns? And now you're kicking indoors and blowing things up. It's a little too. It's a little too technological. Okay, so it sounds great, right? Yeah, so far it sounds great. The other cops hate you and you're training secretly. It all sounds perfect. Yes, nice. Now, shit what the Black Panthers was on at this point. I'm not gonna lie. I'm a fan of our new plot that's just entered. The Black Panther Party or the BPP, originally known as the Black Party Panther for Self-Defense, was a revolutionary black nationalist and socialist organization active in the US from 1966 until 1982. Initially, the Black Panther Party used armed citizen patrols to monitor the behavior of police officers and challenge police brutality. Wow. Okay, why'd you go away? Yeah, I mean seriously. No seriously. How is this not coming back right now? I know, yeah. If someone, if they don't think this isn't being talked about, they're fucking crazy. I would not be surprised if we see Black Panthers come back. I'm into it. And I love cats of all kinds. Oh, love them. Especially, I like it all. I've always enjoyed petting Panthers. When you get a Panther purring, there's nothing like that. Oh my God. Nothing like that. So loud, so pretty. So pretty. And then they eat your hand. And then yeah, and then they just eat your closest baby. In 1969, community social programs became a main activity of party members. The Black Panther Party instituted a variety of community social programs, most extensively, the free breakfast for children's programs. Savages. So now they start, now they start up in their game a little bit. Now the whole, now everyone's getting, it's not just about walking around with guns. Now it's like, you know, they're stepping up. So now, yeah, this is when people get really upset when you start, start doing it. Well, yeah, you can't be giving free, free meals. We've learned that, we've learned that very recently with our boy Clifford. The FBI director, J. Edgar Hoover called the party the greatest threat to the internal security of the country. Right. While he wore a dress. Why? So. And he used to fuck his assistant, right? Was that his deal? I don't know. Or was it just a cross-dresser? I thought he was just a cross-dresser, but who knows? Regardless. Yeah, regardless. I mean, it's just great that at the end of the day, the guy who's legislating a lot of what is and what isn't acceptable was secretly putting on women's clothing behind closed doors in his office. Well, he was, he was righteous. Yep. Hoover supervised an extensive program of surveillance, infiltration, perjury, police harassment, and many other tactics designed to undermine Panther leadership. Wait, he came, he used those charges against the Black Panther. That was the program, the FBI program. Was to use surveillance, infiltration, perjury, police harassment, and other tactics to undermine Panther leadership. Cool. Nice guy. Discriminals, discredit, and criminalize the party and drain the organization of resources of manpower. Yeah. The program was also accused of being, of using assassination against Black Panther members. Oh, good. That's interesting. We're prong in the strategy. We're a great country. Yeah, great country full of good people who really are looking for resolution, not just the quickest answer. On December 4th, 1969, Fred Hampton of the Illinois chapter of the Black Panthers was asleep in a Chicago home when he was shot and killed at Point Blank Range during a gun raid by the Chicago police department. Who kills someone, like a gun raid where you shoot a person sleeping feels like- Point Blank? Point Blank feels like we're a little off topic of what the gun raid was about. I don't know. Like we're there to prevent gun violence. They're like, get him while he's sleeping. This program is called Kill the Black People. It's a good one too. It's been going on for a long time. Yeah, I believe that program is still going. Yeah. In LA, the Black Panthers were preparing for an inevitable confrontation with the LAPD. Although they hadn't prepared for a well-organized and highly equipped SWAT unit. On December 6th, two patrol officers claimed to have seen Panther members Paul Red, Duck Smith and Geronimo Platt. Wow. By the way, the evolution of those names was just juicier and juicier. Okay, let's just stop right here and say the Black Panthers had the best nicknames. Yeah. Of any group gone. That's great. Any socialist militaristic group. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, Duck. That's part of the cop's tactic too. It's like, we got to put out the nicknames. Fucking nicknames. God damn it. The Duck. So they claimed that they saw them in possession of illegal firearms. Right. I'm sure they did. They just drove by and they just... They drove by and they were just out there with their... You know how whenever you turn your back, Black people are exchanging money for guns everywhere. Every time. They just happen to drive by one of these normal situations. Yeah, I saw it over there. Yep. No more questions. Let's go get them boys. That pen won't be necessary. Hey, Sergeant Smith, what'd you see? They had guns sticking out of the stuff. Let's move. Search warrants for illegal weapons were issued and served two hours before sunrise on Monday, December 8th. Okay. 9th. Sorry. Big day rives. LAPD responds by planning a massive three location raid involving more than 350 officers. So it's a very normal reaction. Like a third of the police force. A third of the police force. Because they saw two guys with guns. So now there have to be 350 cops. SWAT was going to lead the raid. The operation, surprisingly, quickly turned into the not saving lives failure type of thing that Gates was talking about. Oh, okay. So you're saying we want to do this with that? Yes. Apparently that is not how this went. Well, I mean, what's important is we now have the SWAT team. The Black Panthers responded to police at the door with gunfire and by tossing grenades. Jesus. Right. Tossing grenades? That was their response to a knock. Grenades. Grenades. They were talking about grenades. Enough fucking. You can see the building. It's just this little two story building with like two windows. It's like one of those deals. And just. They're just even grenades through. A bombing. Jesus Christ. SWAT and every cop around responded by shooting hundreds of rounds into the four to five buildings. So they've fortified the building. So you can't shoot into it. It's just center blocks and center blocks. Overall both sides shot over 5000 rounds of ammunition as the as the hours passed. This thing lasted four hours. SWAT realized they couldn't shoot the guys in the building. Okay. At that point Gates petitioned the Marines for a grenade launcher. What throwing's too hard? Well, they didn't they weren't cops were allowed to have grenades then. You couldn't just have grenades as a cop. Right. You could have certain weapons. But it also undermines his whole point that they're going to try the reason SWAT exists was to not kill people. Well we all know how precise grenades are. So it goes on for like an hour and he goes let's get the grenades and blow the fuck out of them. I thought you guys were gonna. I thought the whole thing was to not kill people. Get the grenades. So back then before they use a grenade launcher they had to get federal approval. So the mayor called the Defense Department in Washington. Wait, this is mid like battle. The battle in the middle of the battle. So he's treating it like you're watching a sporting event and someone forgot breadsticks when you ordered a pizza. So he's just kind of just like, hey, go right up. Yeah. Okay. Good. Normally I'm gonna do water. Yeah. So we have some black people we want to blow up. You had me at black people. Let's dance. What do you need? Exactly what happened. Go for it. Yep. I think they stamped it cool. Yeah. Hey, where's my cool stamp? Cool. So they got the grenade launcher down there and it was waiting in a car. It was they were getting ready to use it. How? When the black panther surrendered. Okay. Oh my God, talk about the blue balls the cops had. Right? Oh yeah. Oh, they were probably just jerking off around that fucking thing. You sure you don't want to shoot a little longer at us? We were kind of just starting to get into it. We were just gonna go over this car here and get this little tube thing. Just shoot tube grenades at you. There were only 11 panthers against hundreds of cops plus butch casting the sentence kid had just come out in October of 69. Okay. They'd seen the ending to that. Oh, right. So that was like, this is not. Yeah, right. So only three panthers and three LAD PD cops were injured making swats first operation a huge success in the so everything he said is true. Yeah. They but it's because they didn't get to use their grenade launcher. Yeah, right. And they wanted to they were dying to. Yeah, I mean so 70 a cop and fucking 69 be able to shoot a grenade launcher into a house full of blacks. Come on. God, it's like a dream. It's like a Norman Rockwell painting. Perfect. The next big SWAT event happened on May 17 SWAT event 1974. So five years later. Okay. The LAPD discovered that the Symbionnes Liberation Army a left wing completely batshit crazy group who had kidnapped Patty Hearst and Rob Banks was holed up in an L.A. house. Okay. So the SLA originally was fighting for racial equality, but they were almost entirely white guys. Okay. Ladies there were a lot of ladies in it. Yeah. But so then so they were in in SF and the heat was on them because they had robbed these banks and they kidnapped Patty Hearst. So a bunch of them went down to L.A. and moved into a black neighborhood and then the black people were walking up to cops and going, there's the crazy white people are here because they didn't want the crazy white. Yeah. Right. So they were going up to the cops and being like the crazy white people with the guns are in the yellow officer. There's something I never thought I'd say. Yeah. The crazy white people. Yeah. That's crazy white. And they were like, oh, so over 400 feels like I should beat you, but you're not saying anything. Give me information that's helpful. So I want to punch you. I'm so used to just throwing you on the ground. Oh man. There's nothing in the manual about this. I just going to walk away. No, what's happening? All right. One punch. One punch over 400 police rounded the house on East 54 Street in Los Angeles. So fucking many. Swat fired tear gas into the house. SLM SLA members shot back with automatic weapons. The gunfight raged on for two hours when police shot more tear gas canisters and the house caught on fire. Okay, so that's never good. No, the house on fire is not good. When your house is on fire. No, you're not. You're nearing the end of your thing. Yeah, you're not. Again, you're not really, there's not much tactical, there's not much tactical thinking going into a burning house. No, there's like, if you're at a burning house and it's on fire, you're like, I'm going to die. Okay. It's too hot to touch. I think I'll go outside. And then a couple of man had immediately got shot. Yeah. Because the cops were like, cool. Who you shot at us before. So you know how we're supposed to be just total equals six LA member six SL a members died. No police were killed over 9000 rounds of ammunition were fired between the LAPDs. It says LA. What? That is so insane. It's crazy. All at one fucking house. That's I mean, and that's insane. Yeah. After the SLA shootout SWAT teams were issued body armor and automatic weapons. Now, modern day SWAT, we know it as we know it was born. Now on September 20th, 1970, four years before the SLA shootout, a boy was born in Los Angeles. Who was he now? His name was Larry Warfell, Jr. Warfell Warfell W a r f e l. All right, junior. His father was Larry Warfell senior and his mother was Barbara Allen. Okay. Except those actually weren't their names at all. Oh boy. They were actually Dorothy Clay and Larry Eugene Phillips senior and they were on the run from the law. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, they had me fooled for 10 seconds. Larry senior's life of crime started early when he was a year out of high school. He was arrested for pulling a prank with some friends. The prank was to dig up a grave and remove a corpse's head. And he spent a few. He spent a few months in prison. What a really funny joke. Hey, you guys, I got a great prank. I want to pull him. This guy is not alive. Yeah. Yeah. Or what? Yeah. The prank on unless you're going to do something with the head. And even then, I mean, you have to know that who you're pranking is not going to find the humor in it. It's not a sandwich at all. That's a human head. Hey, great pranks. I'm going to get a leg from a human body. Huh? Where does it go from there? That's it. It's gone. It's gone everywhere. I got a leg. I got an actual leg. They take my leg. And other people are with him like, so wait, what is this prank? Well, you got a head, right? You take it from a body and then you're like, I got a head. Right. Okay. I just wasn't sure if there's more to it. No, that's the whole thing. It's not very good. It's good. Hey, okay. Wait, watch me. Hey, I got a head. You know what? I'm actually starting to buy this a little bit. That is pretty fucking funny. That head is really weird and gross. Larry senior spent a few months in prison. What are you in for? I cut off a dead guy's head as a joke. Oh, come on. Go over there. It's out of the yard. Cool. People say that a lot to me. You're one of them. You're one of the, yeah, there's a little groupie over there. You can join that gang. I want to be a neo-Nazi. No, no, no. You're with prank heads. Prank heads. Oh my God. Come on to MTV. Prank heads. We're going to fall 2015. Prank heads. We're shocked that we're under fire for the show prank heads and we promised to take a look internally until we could fix the tone. Well, we knew it was edgy. We just didn't think people would get so upset about it. The problem is we don't know what edgy means. Look, we thought it was fun. It was dangerous. No one was actually getting hurt. You remember how mad people were when Steve-O jumped in poo? That's, we thought it was this. We thought this was Steve-O and poo. It was just a head. It's a guy's head. A fucking head. Prank heads. Hey, there's a head in my salad. Prank heads. Prank heads. Dun, dun, dun, dun, dun. So Harry Singer was paroled and then he immediately tried to rob a gas station. At least that's a crime. I mean, at least he did something that just has an upside to it. Yeah, but I kind of loved that he went from like doing a not crime to going to jail to being like, I'm going to commit a real crime then. Well, he probably got to put me in jail for carrying her out of head. People in jail were probably just like, man, you didn't even really commit a crime. He was like, I did too. What's up, HP? Huh? Give me my HP, boy. Well, hip-wreck. Stop it. Hey, HP. Stop calling me HP. He robs the liquor store with the head. He's like, give me all the money. Black. There you go. He spent three months in prison and then he was sent to a mental hospital, which we don't know why. I know why. But then he managed to escape from the mental hospital and he hooked up with his girlfriend Dorothy and they hit the road. What's not to love about that situation? I'm sure Dorothy who wouldn't stick with him. Who wouldn't stand by that guy? He's a great guy. He's a great guy. He occasionally gets into head. Sure. I mean, there's a whole head thing. Every boy dabbles in heads when they're young. We've all had our head phase. Larry Singer then went by the name Daniel Ira Warfel. Daniel was someone he went to high school with and he decided to use the name because Daniel was quote a mama's boy. So he figured if he just took Daniel's identity, Daniel was in such, Daniel would never commit a crime. So it's not like it's a bad guy's identity. That guy would commit a crime and he'd get arrested for that. So he's like, well, this guy's a pussy. He's a warfel. He's a warfel. Classic warfel. Just total warfel. But then you would have to walk around all day. What's your last name? Warfel. Yeah. I mean, you really could have probably just picked a random name and liked it. I don't know if you could have picked a worse name. Instead he sounds like a sick waffle. I don't know if you could have picked a worse name. Warfel. What's wrong with your waffle? I don't know. It's got puke on the inside. It looks kind of like a warfel. Very little is known about Larry Jr.'s wife Dorothy, except that she's known to have used the aliases. Dorothy Clay. Dorothy Mastis. Frances Ellen Garcia. Dorothy Stefano. Barbara Allen. And Dorothy Phillips. What a chameleon. So she was, I'm guessing, not a good lady. Yeah, I don't know. So I thought of my new name. I've got seven names I used. I'm going to go with Dorothy. Your name is Dorothy. Your name is Dorothy. Yeah, but this time I'll think of some new ones then. Okay. Oh, I've got it. Oh, yeah. Dorothy. No, I'm sorry. You're right. You're right. Oh, Dorothy, Dorothy. Yes, exactly. Her only occupation that was ever listed was prostitute. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Is she listed that? Has she been on Monster? I'm not sure. Was she like going to 7-Eleven? I'm not a good job. For the past seven years I have been a prostitute. You can call my pimp, bitch-slap. Here's his number. He's referred me. You can call Frank X or Larry X or Jimmy X. Yeah. Excuse me. Is this Jimmy X? We got a woman here, Dorothy. She said she used to fuck her for money. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I used to fuck Dorothy for money. Was she good at? Was she good at her job? Yeah, she was good at fucking. What's the position she's applying for? Accountant? Yeah, I think she'd be great. She's such a real good dick, so she'll probably be really good with numbers. I mean, just say you never had a job. Right. I've always been a- Well, I don't want to sound like I didn't work. I was a whore for seven years. This is my favorite part of the Larry senior story. He was walking down the street in Salt Lake City when a cop approached him and asked his name. Larry senior, even though he has like 30 different names, told the cop his real name. What the fuck? I know! I know! You've got so many names to choose from. And he picks his real one. Can you imagine his internal- What? You were not whoreful! His internal voice when he said that is like dumbass. How did you just say your real fucking name? Seriously, just say Larry Phillips. Did I really just say that? Yeah, me? I'm Larry Phillips. Ugh. God damn it, I meant whoreful. I mean, I hate waffles. So then the cop put him in the back of his police car and ran him for warrants. When the warrants came back positive, I don't know what's happening in Utah at this time, Larry bolted from the back of the police car. Okay, so that's what your question is? What about the locks where you can't get out of the cop car in the back? And then he just ran away and the cop didn't catch him. He just, the guy ran in for warrants and then he just opened up the door and took off. Oh, there are some. I'm gonna run. At that point, the couple decided to move to Los Angeles. Okay. Now, the reason I bring up- The whole drive, they were practicing, what are our names? Larry Whoreful. And Dorothy Prostitute. Dorothy and Horathe. Horathe. Now, the reason I bring up all this background about Larry Sr. is because of the effect it had on Larry Jr. Larry Sr. saw himself as a victim of law enforcement and considered them to be the enemy. Well, I'm sure his son didn't think anything different. No, the boy was right on board. So this is a good time to bring a kid in the world, right? Yes. You're like, you know what? I've got 19 aliases. My wife's a prostitute. I am a petty thief. I just ran out of a cop car in Utah. How about a kid? Let's share this experience. You know, when people say I don't want to have a kid yet until I get a little more settled? Yeah. This is it. Settled. It's been a while. But while the family was celebrating Larry Jr.'s sixth birthday, the cops busted in the door and arrested Larry Sr. while his horrified son looked on. Happy birthday, Larry Jr. Dad's face and cake, cops all over him. Horrified son and regular whore mom. That day apparently had a huge effect on Larry Jr. What do you mean? The day that his dad got arrested at his birthday? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, weird, right? The last time Larry Sr. had been imprisoned was seven years ago. At that time, he had a three-quarter inch scar on his right knee. This time, seven years later, he had a half inch scar underside of his jaw, a one inch scar underside of his left forearm, a two inch scar underside of the left forearm, and a one inch stab wound scar right side of the torso below the rib cage. So in those seven years... Been a busy beat. Someone was living. You know what? Someone was being what I like to call a dad. That's a lot of... Hey, boy! Hey, stop. Can you just help dad stop his bleeding? Hey, some asshole stab drill man. Give me the stab towel. Give me the stab towel. Hey, Larry Jr., you got the stab kit there? I'm bleeding again. Give me the stab kit, yeah. Well, no, I was just playing with a head. Get the bullet wreck too. Yeah, you know, listen. I have to go, I have to stop going to the graveyard and cutting off heads. It looks like I'm leading a double life. Larry Sr. would explain some of the advice he gave to his son later. One great tip was, quote, if you're going to do something wrong, then don't tell anyone. It's a great moral rule. I mean, right there. It has the perfect beginning. If you're going to do something wrong, don't do it. Right. If you're going to do something wrong, talk to someone. If you're going to do something wrong, don't tell anybody. Don't hide it. Hide that shit. Hide Barry. You know, criminalling? Yeah. Don't tell people. That's how your old man got caught a bunch of times. That's the cops. I got to go. How do you think I got caught with that about that head? I walked into a bar and I was like, hey, I took a head. I guess you could say, I'm at the head of the line. I'll have a beer. Who's with you? You all look pretty scared for somebody who just killed at a comedy club. Why is he always arresting me? The marriage ended in 1980. Okay. Larry Sr. would see his boy less and less. And when he did see him, Larry Sr. tried to impart his criminal wisdom into his impressionable son, telling him tales from the wrong side of the law of exploits and experiences and of just how he could never, ever, ever trust the police. Okay. Larry, it's quick. Might be a little damaging. Sure. Larry quit school. Larry Jr. quit school in the ninth grade and married his high school sweetheart. What else are you going to learn? Hey, look, man, now Larry Jr. had a plan. He like his father wanted to get rich. Oh boy. I tried. You know what I'm saying? I think we know which one's going to happen. And the whole quitting high school thing, I assume, was a big part of that genius plan. Yeah. In 1986, Larry Jr. and his high school sweetheart moved to Los Angeles and he decided to become a bodybuilder. Okay. Like most get rich, quick plans. Yeah, I mean, is that really like, I could probably have helped with better plans. Hey, you want to do a pyramid screen? Skain, no. I'm going to start lifting weights. No, I'm going to take the next 15 years to maybe compete over my body. Hey, I was thinking about this plan where we, you know, we trick people into giving us money and we say it's a pyramid investment. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What do you think? No, I think I'm going to lift weights. Let's lift weights. Okay, here's the thing. I'm going to get really, really big. Okay, I'm going to go rob a fucking bank, dumbass. Okay, I'm going to get big. Okay, bye. Good luck to you, robbery money guy. Yeah. You're an idiot, Larry. I'll see you on the front of Muscle Magazine. You probably won't, bud. He signed up for a five year membership at the world famous Gold's Gym in Venice Beach. Oh, yeah, he's done the hard parts. He filled out the application. He figured, I also love that he signed up for five years when you can just sign up for a fucking month or just a year. You got to paint yourself in that corner if you want to be the best. He figured that that was the gym to go to because it was famous, right? Of course. Yep. We all know the best things are the ones you've heard of. Yep. This was a bit complicated because he lived in Pasadena. Oh, Christ. And he didn't have a car. What? He should have become a fucking sprinter. For people who don't know what we're talking about. It's very far. He couldn't live in a more opposite location in Los Angeles. A farther away location than Pasadena. Driving it would be a pain. Oh my God, driving it right now would be two hours. A big pain in the ass. It'd be a fucking nightmare. It actually might be time to start walking there now that I'm talking about it. It might be faster actually. So he would take a bus every day to the gym and each way would take two hours. Oh my God. Instead of just going to a gym near him and getting big and then going to the Venice School gym. Sure, yeah. His wife must have loved his plan. Oh God, she was like, this is working out. It's perfect because you're gone seven hours a day and look the same. But as ripped as Larry Junior became, he realized he was never going to get as big as was necessary to make a living in muscles. I don't think that's good. He let his gym membership lapse. Okay. Sad days. We're hearing a dream die right now. I think we're about to see a nightmare start. But what he did do at the gym before he gave up his dream was meet a man who had changed his life. And this is the only time to say his last name because it's a fucking Romanian nightmare last name. Emil Matessaranu. I'm just going to say that's just that's it. I'm not going to I'm not going to go near that one again. You know, the Romanians like to use a lot of vowels. I believe it's vowels only every every remaining name is like a vowel part. Vowels and W's I think is what's permitted. Larry Junior had a skill that was a bit odd. He before horrible decision making horrible decision making. He prefer to people who were needy people. He would have an upper hand over who he could control and manipulate. Cool guy describes Emil perfectly. Yep. Emil wasn't exactly well liked. He was an only child of Valerie Nikolescu and VRL Dominic Matessaranu. That's that name again. There was he he was born in Romania on July 19th 1966. Okay. In 1974 Valerie and VRL defected while on a tour of Italy with an opera company. They were opera singers. Okay. Naturally. Sure. Yeah. Of course. And everybody loves the Romanian opera singer. It's some of the better opera. They eventually made their way to Altadena a suburb next to Pasadena near Los Angeles. Just like Romania. Right down this street from where I live. Yep. That's right. Do you want to give your address out? Nope. Okay. So he was a student of high school where he had close to zero friends. Poor kid. There's no mention of any involvement in sporting activities, computer labs or any social outlet within the school in his yearbook. He was bullied in high school due to his Romanian accent. Quit being Romanian dumbass. There's nothing I can do. And he had epilepsy. Oh Jesus Christ. Hey shake your Romanian. Go fuck yourself. Hey he's shaking. Leave him be now guys. Oh who has a weird accent. Shake your shakes. Oh Jesus. Who fell down with Romanian guy. Oh and he was overweight. Okay so let's just real quick. We have a nerdy Romanian fat seizure child. Yeah. What? Yeah. No that sounds cool. Yep. It's all going to work out. Oh Jesus. You know I feel like there's no one to relate to at high school. I go shake his shake now. Yeah I go shake it but I'm going to go to the floor to shake for a bit. When I fat so when I shake my tits go boom boom. Oh Jesus. Did you go to high school with him you fuck. I boy. I boy. I fall down my tits go boom boom. Yeah I'm man. I'm man now. I have tits goes balls. I have tits. Just even hearing your impression makes me not want to hang out with him and not feel as bad. It just sounds like a wet noodle. Sometimes I fall down I go shake his shake. Nice show my balls. My tits go boom and I get up and I go I'm man. Alright Emile that'll be enough I'm the principal. He became an introvert getting into computers and spending all his time at home. Okay. Can you believe the introvert. Yeah I'm shocked. Yeah no shocking. It's just. Well I guess when you can't be an extrovert you have to be something. When you're not allowed to be anything. There's no yeah you can't do anything. In 1982 his mom got a state care license to help. I missed. Oh boy. Slowly. In 1982 his mom got a state care license to take in developmentally disabled adults. Okay. It's so hard to read because it's so crazy. So she started taking care of mentally disabled people. Sure. Well Emile was done. He was fixed. You could get between one thousand and four thousand a month per disabled person from the state. She took in six. What. The place was called Valerie's Villa. Well I love the alliteration but everything else sounds like a real shit shot. Then things began to fall apart in the marriage. Why David. I don't know. I can't think of any reason. Oh yeah. Emile also began to have an interest in firearms. This is just the details are just not sounding good. No we're building a beautiful beautiful picture. I'm a little worried about what I'm hearing. A neighbor said he was always seen cleaning several guns. Okay that's the craziest statement. A neighbor. He would often say no he's always seen cleaning a gun. But what he's saying is this guy always had like a table set up. He was clearing up. He was cleaning a bunch of guns. Like in public maybe. Outside of where Valerie takes care of the mentally disabled kids. What are you doing. I'm just watching Valerie's husband clean his guns while she teaches the disabled kids inside. And because of all the tension revolving around the end of his parents marriage and financial ruin he got a little easy to agitate. He developed anger and attitude problems and on one occasion swung a chainsaw in his next door neighbor's face because the neighbor's dog walked onto his lawn. Well you know how property lines are. You've got to be very careful. I mean I think we're all on a meal side. Yeah. But I love it. So wait a meal did the chainsaw thing. He swung a chainsaw at a guy. He might have been having a seizure you insensitive bastard. You know how many things you can swing in someone's face that already scares them. It's not a chainsaw. Like everything. A chainsaw swing. A hammer would freak you out if it was coming towards your face. A citation was issued to Valerie's licensed home for disabled adults for quote leaving firearms strewn about the house. Stroom. Stroom was the word in the LA Times. Jesus. Stroom. Right. In a home full of mentally disabled people. Yeah. There's just guns everywhere. Well yeah but part of you has to think it'll be exciting when it goes down. On several occasions state licensing officials visited Valerie's villa but were denied entry to the home. In September 1995 community care licensing inspectors were turned away twice. On one visit Valerie told inspectors she would not meet with them and drove off in a van. No. But then. But she has these disabled kids there. I go now. Well I'm sure there was someone else watching them when she. I'm sure there were. Many of the guns will keep an eye on them. They chain. They got chain. Don't worry they're fine. Leave us alone. They chain. They chain. They chain to wall. They're good. They health. They engage us. They're happy. They have guns. They have guns. I have to go. I really am late. On another visit a man coming to be Valerie's attorney told inspectors to leave the site and said he would get a gun from his car if they did not do so. Good. Good. Good attorney. That's how the law works. That's a good attorney right there. That's the best attorney ever. I don't have the legal argument but I do have a loaded handgun in my car. The exact case escapes me. Let me just go get my twenty two. Hold on. I'm gonna. I'm gonna shoot you. I'm just gonna kill you guys instead. Can I see your paperwork or no I'm just gonna shoot you. That looks pretty legit. I guess I'm gonna have to kill you guys. Valerie's mental problems continued and it led to a series of rest for arrests for his parents. The ruin followed for the family after Valerie's license was suspended so she can no longer take care of the right. She no longer that sweet cash that sweet little side job that was a twenty four hour a day pseudo nightmare. Meanwhile a male and Larry junior were becoming good friends after meeting at Gold's gym. Larry junior began studying real estate determined to make his break into the current boom market which was also known by another name the savings and loan scandal because every 10 or 15 years America likes to have a self made housing crisis in which the government has to pay billions to bail out white collar criminals. So he wanted to get on that. I'm excited for the next one. Right. That's gonna be fun. Anyway on November 3rd 1990 he was issued his salesperson's license but he had to pass an exam by May 3rd 1992 and pass background checks. That's last part might be an issue. Yep. On January 30th 1991 Larry's license was suspended indefinitely. The California Department of Real Estate processed his background check. His fingerprints revealed an undisclosed arrest. Turns out that in 1989 at a Sears store in Alhambra Larry senior or sorry Larry junior had shop lifted four hundred dollars worth of suits. So I just want to point out that first of all four hundred dollars in suits so it's plural. Yeah. Oh so suits suits. That's what's amazing. Four hundred dollars. And he got caught. Oh how was the guy like hey you didn't walk in with eight suits. That are fifty dollars. Yeah. In Sears. It's not like he's getting two two hundred dollars suits. Who steals from Sears. The whole thing. The worst suit. It's just he's the Larry junior is just the master criminal of all time. Don't fuck with me I took a head once. Larry went ape shit. He felt that these people had taken away his livelihood somehow deprived him persecuted him and he swore to get even just like his dad now. So now it's exactly like it must be great when you're on the phone like OK well to all that I just got to say again you're it's a suspended indefinitely. I will find you and I'll kill everyone. All right. Well I just yeah don't sell don't sell property. OK well my dad took heads. OK. I'm hanging up. At this point Larry was still living with his high school sweetheart. Art Santos is her name in a house near Pasadena and they had a baby because like his dad. You want to pass you want to pass this gene. It's just a great time to bring a kid. You want to pass this down. Money came in but she had no idea where he was getting it. When she asked about it he said don't worry mind the baby. It's good. It's a good sign. Good marriage. So OK so Larry then uses real estate knowledge. He set up a phony shell company and sold fake second mortgages to real estate brokers. Sold fake second. OK. Right. So he got involved when he took a real estate agent named Larry Newfield for twenty three thousand dollars. But then Larry Jr. got greedy and he had an accomplice. Dennis Hicks called to get even more. This time they were going for sixty five thousand. So he's at he's so he's calling up and saying I have a sixty five thousand dollars second mortgages by the new field became suspicious when Hicks started demanding that the deal be done really quickly. Strange right. So Newfield drove to the house in question and spoke to the owner and the scam was uncovered. OK. Newfield then called Hicks. But Larry Jr. answered the phone. Because Hicks and Larry Jr. were the same person. Oh Jesus. In his wisdom Larry hadn't thought to use a different phone number or get a different messenger service or whatever. He's a werewolf when he created an alias. The alias game in this family is not strong. OK so my name is Darrell now. It's the same number though. The voice the voice mail or the answering machine. You've heard Larry and or Hicks. You've heard Larry Jr. Larry Wofford Jr. and Dennis Hicks and Steve Gibbons and all right. Leave him if you're calling about the sixty five thousand leave a message for Dennis if you're calling about the four hundred eighty four dollars leave a message for Larry. Newfield and Larry Jr. argued. Larry Jr. tried to convince Newfield. God damn it. Oh boy. This is so hard to read. OK it's a sixty five thousand dollar Morgan. Uh huh. Yep. Yes. Larry Jr. tried to convince Newfield that the owner wanted a second more and used to pay for a lawn mower. God damn it. Hey golden lawn mower. Oh he's the worst criminal of all time. A lawn mower. It's a Bentley. A golden lawn mower. No you don't understand man he wants a lawn mower. Dude don't ask me. He just told me he wants to spend sixty five thousand dollars on cutting his grass. Just a thing called it the hockey rink the the Zamboni. Yeah it's like it's one of those. It's a lawn Zamboni. It's a lawn bony. Oh god. So let me ask you this what was his reaction. It's so weird. Newfield didn't believe that story. Why. He didn't buy it. As good as that story was coming from an amazing comment like Larry Jr. he didn't believe it. He needs to he needs to do it. He wants to get a lawn mower. Pal I'm not lying. And Newfield also already talked to the guy. Yeah so yeah. The whole thing was over. You talked to him but did he mention this lawn mower. He was saying about that. Because he saw he says to me. He said Zamboni. You didn't say Zamboni. No more questions. Newfield demanded his twenty three thousand back at which point Larry Jr. threatened him. Listen the people I work for are animals. They're going to hurt you bad. Jesus. Newfield hung up and called the police. What a. I mean really could have gone better. It could have gone better. A warrant was issued for Larry Jr. but he was not. Why. He was not caught. What. And he set up a new shell company and began the scam all over again. But this time his luck ran out and he was caught by the police. At the time he had a loaded nine millimeter Browning high power pistol. Larry Jr. claimed it was for protection because he worked in a cash business. Okay so. See his. His life is getting a little better. See obviously here's the deal. I steal from people so I need a gun for protection. So. So the gun is okay. Because. Okay so hold on. So the stealing part is bad but because we're going to cash business which is stealing. I need a gun. Capiche. Officer this whole thing is really about a lawn mower. Okay. Larry Jr. also had in his possession a book called master manipulator by Horner Brickley. You know you're going to become a master manipulator when you're buying a book on manipulating. That's how you get there. Actually that's a great book to write master manipulator and you buy it. You are the master manipulator. It is the true story of Ted Wolfram a partner at a brokerage firm in I think Toledo who stole 47 million over a 10 year period and lived the life of the jet set. So this guy's for 10 years stealing from the company and just living like a king. The book sold over 3800 copies in a year. Wow. Yeah. Ted Wolfram spent 10 years in federal prison for stealing from investors. Larry Jr. wanted the same lifestyle. Cool. Do you see any problem with that? Yes. The prison thing? Yeah. Okay. That it ends poorly. Larry Jr. somehow beat the rap on the scam. Noah knows how. Rumors that he turned into accomplices who all fled to Canada or maybe the prosecutor didn't believe there was enough evidence to convict but either way he was free and all was well. His wife saw things differently. With the arrests and the money coming from nowhere his wife decided enough was enough and took their son and moved to Denver. Okay. At this point, Amil and Larry Jr. began hanging out a lot. Oh boy. Now Amil was recently married. He had met a woman while visiting his grandmother in Romania. They'd quickly cranked out a son that Amil adored. Then Amil was struck by one of the patients at Valerie's facility. Oh Jesus. He suffered a blood clot in his head from which he would have headaches for the rest of his life. He underwent surgery but began having more seizures. Ugh. Then his wife and son left him. Oh my God. But I'm guessing the seizures weren't the reason that they left. I'm guessing him being a fucking moron. Yeah. And a crazy guy who put chainsaws in people's face. I'm guessing that was. Sure. I'm guessing she wanted to get the fuck out of Romania. A few things. And she married an American nationalized guy and then after three years she was like, oh God, can we go? All you do is shake and make bad decisions. They're not tits. I didn't say you're tits. Okay, but they're breath. Oh Jesus Christ. My breath. No, they're shaking again. My breath's going boom boom. They're shaking again. Boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom. Now Amil and Larry Jr. were two guys who wanted to get rich quick. Okay. Lost their families and they were into the gym. All three. Hey man, some cool dudes. Three very bad things. Some cool dudes. They hit the road together and started to travel around. They decided to make some money. First, in Lilliton, Colorado, they robbed an armored car on July 20, 1993. Okay. No one was hurt. So the get rich on fire. On October 23, 23 1993 in Glendale, California, Larry Jr. and Amil driving in a brand new red Ford Thunderbird that they had rented from an airport sped away from a gas station at high speed. They were pursued and stopped by Sergeant Ian Grimes. Grimes asked Larry Jr. for his driver's license. Larry Jr. said he'd accidentally left it at home. Amil said the car was his mother's. But Grimes knew the car was a rental because of the rental stickers and the registration and the key chain. And he had seen them leaving a rent apart parking lot. I never thought I never thought I would say this, but Amil should leave the lying to Larry. Amil somehow was. Where'd you guys get the car? It's my mother's. Her name is rental. She had a name budget. Her name budget rental car. She mama's budget. I shake. I shake. I shake. Officer Grimes ordered them out of the car. He then noticed they were both armed with 90 millimeter Glock 17 pistols. Which he took from them. Yep. The search was then made of the Thunderbird. The following was found a Polytech semi automatic rifle with a folding stick a Norinco MAK 90 semi automatic rifle with a wooden stock a Springfield Armory 45 pistol a Colt 45 pistol 1649 rounds of 7.62 by 39 millimeter ammunition. Most of them loaded into 30 round magazines three Chinese made 75 round drum magazines loaded with 7.62 and 39 millimeter ammo 367 rounds of 9 millimeter HP ammo 357 rounds of 45 HP ammo six smoke bombs to improvise explosive devices a gas mask two sets of national armor level two a vest to 200 channel portable programmable scanners with earpieces sunglasses gloves wigs ski masks and a stopwatch two spray cans of gray studio hair color three different California automobile license plates and $1,620 in cash don't speed you guys go to the beach. You guys are murder clowns. We go camping. Yeah. Also love love the idea that there's one gas mask. Somehow Larry convinced a meal he didn't need that. What do you guys work in a salon with the high see the hair stuff in here? So you guys are graffiti makeover people who have a bit of a wrong here gentlemen just don't speed anymore. Capiche. Well, this all looks in order. Sorry for the delay gentlemen. Pardon me Larry. We finally have a guy named Larry. That's my name. So the two are arrested in charge with conspiracy to commit robbery grand theft auto unlawful weapons activity carrying concealing a loaded firearm and perjury. In December Larry Jr. list is amazing. It's fucking remarkable. In December Larry Jr. and a meal were sentenced to 99 days and 71 days in prison respectively plus 36 days of probation for each. Okay. Not a lot of time. They had all the time. Yeah. Everything they had there. They were going to they were like, Hey guys, you're about to commit the worst crime ever. Here's 90. Here's a little slappy slap on the wrist. That's literally a slap on the wrist. They were going to do something horrifying. Yeah. It's a nice it's nice of law enforcement to be like, Hey, that tragedy is going to have to wait three months. That's right. Boom. Justice served. Justice and lessons were learned. There we go. Lives change. You guys get rehabbed. All right. You get you 99 days of rehab. Anyway, as you're checking out, we'll now give you your things back. Some wigs, some graffiti, a gas mask. Hold on. What I give you 99 days. Yeah. I'll give you 71. Perfect. Good stuff. Your honor. Oh, God, they were released after their time search. After their summer break. Right. Yeah. We just just a little time to lift weights. Yeah, just some weight time. July 14 1995 in Los Angeles, they robbed a Brinks armored car. They used automatic weapons and shot the armored cars rear door open. 51 year old security guard. Herman Dwight Cook was killed. Another guard was shot in the neck, jaw and chest but survived Jesus. On March 27 1996, another Brinks armored car was shot at on a street by the two would be robbers. The Brinks the armed car sped off and got away from the criminals. May 2nd. Same year. Possibly because of the failed armored car attempt, the two made their first bank robbery. They stormed into a Bank of America in Van Nuys sometime before 10 a.m. armed with automatic rifles. They used weapons, eight made it eight minutes later. They exited the bank with $755,000 and 48 cents. I love that they took 48 cents. So great. They took. Give me that. They took. They took a quarter. A dime. Two dives. Two dives. And three pennies. Tolls. Then on May 31st at 10.05 a.m. Larry Jr. and Emile Rob another Bank of America and got away with $794,000. $794. $200. There you go. $794. $794,200. They thought the bank would have two million. That was what they thought when they walked in. But due to new security measures, a significant portion of that money had been collected two days earlier. So clearly Bank of America changed it up because they just got robbed of $755,000. But how great. I mean, but still you get 800 fucking grand for five minutes. Okay. Yeah. Now they have now they have like over one point six million dollars. So this time they left two bank tellers injured. Their feet were both hit by shrapnel and an assistant bank manager was assaulted with the muzzle of a gun. Larry Jr. and Emile were dubbed the high incident bandits by investigators due to the weaponry they had used in their robberies. They could have definitely come up with a better title. And did note was there not a cop anywhere who was like, yeah, you remember those guys we pulled over that had all the weapons. Yeah, yeah, those were cool guys. Like all the weapons in the in this. Those guys were super cool. Well, I'm just saying there's guys that are shooting up places with a bunch of weapons. I know we got to find them to right. We got to find those. I mean, I just wish we knew where to start. We should we should talk to those other guys and see if they can help. Is he thinking help us? That's not a bad idea. Those guys were super cool and fine. Cool guys. Cool. On February 28th, 1997, Larry Jr. and Emile arrived at the Bank of America on Laurel Canyon Boulevard in a blue 1987 Chevrolet Celebrity that had been spray painted white. OK, so we'll just let that car detail go. But there was a white car called celebrity. The white car celebrity. And then they spray painted white. So he's a blue car that they spray. I don't know what the thinking there was, but they were like, look, we're going to rob a bank. We better have a white car. Since we started going to the banks, we don't use the spray paint as much as we used to. So I figured maybe we just spray paint the car, give it a nice spray paint shine. Larry, Larry, I find the white car police cannot see. It's smart, Emile. Like we fucking heads up, bro. I see white car. Oh, let me put that stick in your mouth. OK, shake my look at those titties. Look at my boobies. Look at those titties. They got out of the car at 917 a.m. Let me tell you something right now. If the phrase they got out of the car at 917 a.m. You're going to get away. I agree. I agree. I think they know the precise time you've got out of a car. Yeah, not good. After taking phenobarbital, oh, wow, a muscle relaxing drug to calm themselves. Phenobarbital really a fine line with taking prescription medications before bank robberies. Phenobarbital is a long acting barbiturate and is the most widely used anti-seizure medication globally. That affects include a decreased level of consciousness along with a decreased effort to breathe, also hypnosis sedation and dizziness. But basically they took, Larry also took Emile's seizure because they didn't want him to seize up in the middle of that. And Larry is like, everybody put the money in the hold on. Hold on. Oh, Jesus. Hold on. We're going to wait this out. Sorry. Can you put a stick in his? Somebody wait this out. And then we're going to get the money. Emile gets seizures. I mean, do over. We're using this money to buy lawnmowers in case anyone asks. You guys unhear. They walk toward the bank, both armed with one Chinese made Norinco type 56, Sporter assault rifle each and wearing gas and wearing ski masks and bulletproof body armor suits weighing 40 pounds. They synchronized their watches and gave themselves eight minutes. Larry Jr. had used a radio scanner to monitor police transmissions prior to the robbery, which is how he came up with the eight minute interval. Now it's a good plan. Except the one thing I would say is whenever you see a robbery, generally people don't put it all on outside and then walk in. You would go to a closer location. Yeah. You wouldn't get out of your car wearing all the stuff. No. No. Nope. The officers, Lauren Farrell and Martin Pirello saw the two gentlemen walking into the bank and put two and two together. They're not making a deposit. It probably wasn't hard because of all the guns and body armor. They looked like they were going to a shoot slash bombing event. The cops issued a 211 alert, the police code for an armed robbery in progress. Farrell and Pirello then positioned themselves behind a parked semi truck while Emil forced a 32-year-old man who deposited $85 dollars at one of the bank's ATMs inside the bank at gunpoint. They entered the bank. Okay. Larry Jr. shouted, this is a fucking holdup. I like the balls. Total hack though. Yeah. It is hacking. You can't come up with anything. No. They opened fire spraying at the ceiling. This was to intimidate the bank tellers and customers because two guys walking in loaded with weapons wearing basically garbage cans of armor isn't intimidating enough. You guys shoot that ceiling. Let them know. It's time to get scared. The officers outside reported a shots fired alert inside the bank. Larry Jr. and Emil were experiencing problems due to new security measures probably because they had already robbed two Bank of America's. The banks broke their money down into separate lockable boxes to slow down any robbers. And Bank of America had again varied its delivery times to its banks. As a result, the sum of money at the Laurel Canyon Bank was much less than they expected. Emil demanded the manager give them all of the money but there wasn't anymore. In a rage, he emptied a full drum of ammo into the vault. Unfortunately, that's where they keep the money. So he turned a bunch of cash into a nice mist. Emil. He could have shot anywhere. Up. We were just shooting the ceiling. What was wrong with that? It was working out great. Give me all the money. You just shot all the fucking money. God damn it. This is like a bad movie. We used to gather with tape. Now Emil. Put in back. We make money puzzle. You know the kids used to make fun of my titties. They're calling me fat. The two eventually left with $303,305. By that point, at least they're not taking change anymore. Yeah, they have stuff to change stuff. By that point, teams of police officers were surrounding the bank. Sergeant Larry Haynes and Officer Martin Whitfield were on the north side of the bank. Officers Farrell and Perelho on the front of the bank, Officer Edward Breitlinger on the northeastern side, officers James Zabrovin and Stuart Guy as well as detectives Tracy, Angelus and William Krulak were at the west doorway. Larry Jr. walked out of the bank at 9.24 AM and he saw Haynes and Whitfield about 200 feet away and open fire with his assault rifle, riddling their vehicles with bullets. People freaked out and started running for cover. No. No. I mean, if I'm walking down the street and I see cops hunched behind cars, I'm not on the street. No. I'm already running away before the bad things happen. Of course. Who the fuck is walking around? I wonder what they're doing. What are they shooting? Oh my gosh, look at all these cops. Look at that. Larry Jr. continued to shoot with his automatic weapon and his firearm for several minutes, eventually shooting seven police officers and two civilians. Next Larry started shooting an LAPD helicopter that had just arrived. That's amazing. That's amazing. That's pretty. I mean, he's shooting into the sky in a flying thing. Right now he's a hero. You never know. You don't know. He forced the helicopter to fly to a much higher altitude. The helicopter must have been like, hey, well, he's fucking crazy. I can see him. I'll tell you guys if he goes anywhere. He's shooting at me. The police returned fire with their pistols, but because Larry Jr. was so fully covered in body armor, they had no effect, so they're just pinging. Yeah, even officer is a brother's Ithaca model 37 pump action shotgun did absolutely nothing. Larry retreated back into the bank. Moments later he came out this time with a meal. They were both carrying a large bag containing the money they stole. Right. Yeah, it's gonna work. It's gonna work. Yeah, we're gonna fucking make it out of here. Got a real good feeling. Then the die packs went off and ruined all the money. Oh, failure. The die packs went off. The best thing is the assistant manager didn't even mean to put the die packs in. He did it on accident. So they so they run out of the service and they get outside and this pop the tax go off and like fuck me. 18 minutes after the gun battle had begun, members of the SWAT team arrived. So now they're just shooting. Yeah, they'd come straight from an exercise run and we're wearing shorts and tennis shoes under their body armor. Okay. They're in training. They're just training. Yeah, SWAT team headquarters, whatever they call it. They were also armed with AR 15s and this is when the tide began to turn. First SWAT team members commandeered a Brinks armored car to evacuate the wounded who were hiding behind cars on the street. Now Larry, Jr. and Emile were just going into a scape mode. They were no longer had the cash. They're not robbing. Yeah. And their escape plan was to shoot everyone everywhere. Smart. They'd run fire on officers and civilians, injuring officer guy and a civilian and shot again officer Whitfield and Sergeant Hayes. Jesus. Because these guys are not just behind cars hiding. Right. They can't get away because they're just bullets everywhere. So now the Brinks car is moving in. But they're like they're in the open. Yeah, they're just behind the oh the two Larry and Emile. Yeah, they're just standing in the street. Is this the is this one these is this the guys. Yeah. This is the North Hollywood shootout. What the fuck up. I can't believe I got to know those guys just now. They then began to move toward their they then began to move toward their Chevrolet celebrity. It's just it's just it's so hard to read. In the middle of this crazy gunfight. Like Larry's like Emile, let's go for the car. Hey, let's go to the car. We spray painted white. The car. It's yeah. Yeah. The ultimate escape field. Yeah, you'll be fine in that Chevrolet celebrity. That was one of them. When one of them was first shot. Emile was shot in the ass and the left forearm. Larry Jr. then saw a group of officers trying to flank them from a backyard in the open fire. Detective Earl Valaderez was hit in the head by flying debris and seriously wounded. In the middle of the gun battle, five officers went to the B&B gun shop, which is since closed down and started borrowing weapons and ammunition. So the cops are fucking running to a local gunshot and going, give me whatever you got. Yeah. We're going to need stuff. No bigger things. I mean, I squared it away with that guy. Yeah, I'm sure they did. Sure. They made it all fine. Yeah. I wonder why the place closed down because the LAPD because they got other guns stolen from them by cops. And afterwards cops like we didn't go. I didn't. We'll see you later, buddy. A male got in the Chevrolet and started his engine while Larry Jr. covered him with a heckler and and cock M9A1A3 semi-automatic rifle. Police shot at him and hit the rifle, making it useless. Larry Jr. was also hit in the shoulder. He threw the gun down and pulled out a Noreco type 56 S1 assault rifle, but it was jamming. To make things even more complicated, the Fina Barbatal was really kicking in. Oh God. I didn't expect the Fina Barbatal during this. I lost going to show the police. It's gone jammed, Emil. I can't make it work. My tongue feels weird. Do you guys want to keep shooting at each other? It's like God's like what? You made me wish you'd just be friends. Can we call the truth? Emil's ass is really good. Look at my hands. And then the Salem got distracted by his hands for about an hour and a half, which point the battle consumed. This looks like a rabbit, right? His hands. Larry Jr. was becoming confused and started to lack coordination. The Fina Barbatal was a really bad idea. Yeah, terrible. The assault rifle then permanently jammed. Larry Jr. tossed it down and opened fire with a 9mm Beretta Model 92FS semi-automatic pistol. Police returned fire and shot Larry in the right hand. That caused him to drop his pistol. As he picks up the pistol, SWAT fires away and 10 shots from the SWAT team penetrable bullets hit his armor. So he shot. So then Larry Jr. shoots himself in the chin. He picks up the gun, shoots himself in the chin. In an attempt at suicide? Well, okay, so one theory is that he killed himself. Another theory is that his hand had been shot and he picked up the gun and tried to like cock it, you know. Oh. Because we used the only thing he could, which is right underneath his helmet. Right. And he shot himself in the chin while reloading. I kind of want to feel like that's the one. I'm totally going with that one. I'm going to say that's not one. It's just a better story. Yeah. So that was 9.52 AM. So that's, it started in 9.17. That's a while. That's a long time. That's like an episode of Cheers. Yeah. Or any other show but Cheers. I'm staying with the time. Yeah. Okay. No, I think that's fair. I like that now we're going to do it in the top. We're going to keep in the pop culture. Oh, maybe Seinfeld. Seinfeld, yeah. Sure, yeah, sure, meanwhile, Emil, little boop, boop, boop, boop. Meanwhile, Emil was driving on Archwood Street. So he's in the car now. Good. He's driving in full body armor looking normal. And he's made a decision to abandon the Chevrolet Celebrity and car jack another vehicle because the Chevy had two flat tires and a windshield completely riddled with bullets. And he didn't like how the spray paint looked. I can't, I can't believe that that car wasn't working. Yeah, it's shocking. Emil Block. I can't believe he's driving. The fuck like what were the cops like? Oh, shit. Emil blocked a Red Ford Tempo and fired at the driver. The car and driver got away. Emil then came across a group of cars and confronted an aerospace engineer named Bill Marr who had been trying to drive his to his workplace at the Van Nuys Airport in his 1963 Jeep Cherokee pickup truck. I remember this. It's a fucking awesome car. Yeah, it's like an orange truck, right? It's a good yellowish orange. Yeah, but it's an awesome. Yeah, 63 Cherokee pickup. That's a fucking awesome car. So but the Bill Marr had been rerouted to Archwood Street because of a police blockade from the shootout. One of them. What? Oh fuck, I got to go this way. Yeah, he's like, oh god, there's the should have probably just gone the other way. Emil shot at Marr, wounding him and forcing him to flee on foot. Marr ran to the house of a 69 year old Dora Lepjinsky who thought he was an intruder and called police. Perfect. For this reason, for hours after it all ended, police thought there were a lot more robbers and locked down the area and oh, just because of because the third guy popped up and they were like, there's more guys. Poor poor fucking bill. Yeah. Meanwhile, Emil grabbed a Bushmaster XM 15 E2S dissipator semi automatic rifle from the trunk of the Chevy. He saw cops closing and got in Marr's Jeep and tried to get it started. But the problem was the Jeep was a stick shift. Oh. And Emil didn't know how to drive a stick. He got out of the jeep. Hey get back in here and teach me how to drive a stick before I take off. Do I press, do I press the brake or the, what's this third pedal? I am actually starting to feel what you're talking about, that acceleration point where I need to remove my foot off the clutch a little bit. That's interesting. Okay, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry, the cops have just shot me in the neck. So that's probably the end of the today's tutorial. That's bad. I don't know tits. Do I. Emil got out of the Jeep and took position behind it. Another SWAT team arrived and fired at Emil with air 15 assault rifles for two and a half minutes. They then noticed that Emil wasn't wearing any armor on his legs and fired under the vehicle hitting him over 20 times in the legs. Emil fell and gave up when officers. This is a hard one to read. Boy, what officers surrounded him? He called himself Pete. Okay, okay. So the little time for aliases were passed. They only aside gone. So gone when you keep getting away with saying your name is Pete. My name is Pete. It makes any difference. At this point, I'd like to think you're going to do is introduce yourself. Anyway, even if you weren't lying, I feel I feel bad that we did all that without knowing each other. My name is Pete. I like long walks. What do you guys like? How are you? So I'm Pete. I'm not the guy. You know, it's crazy. I think there's a third guy, but I'm not him. My name is Pete. I wasn't. I wasn't here. My legs. Yeah, they're bleeding. My name is Pete. He taunted them to kill him. Can Pete kill Peter? Go kill Pete. You like Pete? The Pete in the tits. It's 10 a.m. A male slowly bled to death on the street. Strangely, it took 70 minutes for the ambulance to arrive. Traffic. Isn't that weird? Traffic. It's really hard to get traffic. They shut a lot of streets down because of a problem. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So they couldn't get there. You can't get there. They were looking for a guy. We're sorry about that. He died from excessive blood loss due to two gunshot wounds in his left thigh. 11 police officers. Slow bleed out. That is a very slow. They just shot a bunch of fucking cops. Oh, yeah. What happens? I get it. Yeah. His family actually sued afterwards. And then and then it was a hung jury and the lawyers like no one's going to give me anybody. They were like, our son, Peter. We call them. Peter Peter 11 police officers were injured as were six billions. 2000 rounds had been fired between the police officers and robbers. Can I just say 2000 rounds? OK. Yeah. Now the SLA one was 9000 rounds. So of the one we saw on TV, we all watched. There was a 44 minute shoot out Hollywood with the Milan Larry. The other one was 7000 more rounds and and the one with North Holland. I mean, it really it was it was non stop firing. Well, there's there's there's documentaries on it. You can watch the documentary called 44 minutes, I think. Three cops who were involved that day later took their lives. Wow. Interesting, right? P.S.D. I would imagine. Really? Yeah, I would imagine so. Yeah, imagine you're getting shot. Yeah, you see your buddies. Yeah, you're being terrorized for a half an hour by what is essentially Michael Myers in in with a fucking gun. Like it's crazy and that would so fuck with your head. I just think it's it is a good thing we take care of the veterans. I agree. After this incident, police and SWAT teams around the country began to load up on weapons, particularly LAPD. Seven months after the incident, the Department of Defense gave 600 surplus M16s to the LAPD, which were issued to each patrol sergeant. LAPD patrol vehicles now carry AR-15s as standard issue with bullet resistant Kevlar plating in their doors as well. After the shootout, police went to Valerie's villa to search for clues about a meal and to find out why he didn't even get it. Right, Pete. Sorry. Yeah. They found a woman with Down syndrome, Georgia Mayo trapped in a room with boarded up windows and open bucket for a toilet and a padlock securing the door. Wow. She had a woman. She had a mentally disabled woman locked in a jail. She had boarded up all the windows and was having her piss in a bucket so she could get her social security checks. Oh my God. That's so fucking hard. It was a decade after she had lost her license to run. Oh my God. That woman had been in there for, no, she wasn't one of, they'd taken all the women out, but she'd gotten another woman and put her in there. Oh my God. A third, another woman, she was receiving the social security checks for and they had no idea where that woman was and it turned out that woman had gone to Mexico. Yeah. Okay. So we're just sending one on a holiday and putting the other one in the house jail? Yeah. Cool. So this is what I'll say. The whole thing, all of it was just to save Georgia Mayo, the mentally disabled woman from the house. Yeah. That's what the tale is. At the end it's all about saving a woman who's jailed and Valerie's villa. I mean, that's the good thing that came out of it. That is what I'm saying. Wow, that was an hour and a half. Was it really? But that's a crazy story, right? Crazy. Now you know who they are. No, it's very dark and gratifying to hear the story of those guys. It's crazy. Yeah. Because that really was when it was, I mean, it was like, you just had never seen anything like that. You'd never seen in the broad daylight people shooting at two Michelin men who were bullet proof. Yeah, that's basically what it was. And it was crazy. And anybody who was interested in this, you can watch, I think it's on Netflix, 44 minutes. Or at least it's on YouTube now. You can just go and, it's insane. It's completely insane. Wow. All right, well let's end it. Yep. Okay. Wow. That was an hour and a half.