 Hello! My name is Dave Anthony. You are listening to the Dallup, a historical podcast. Normally a historical podcast about America. Tell you a little something different. Because my friend... Gareth Reynolds is going to tell Dave Anthony a story he knows nothing about. Reverse Dallup! It's a bizarro Dallup. So I would like to start by saying how are you, Dairy? You fuck. Huh? Dairy? You piece of shit. Yeah, fair. Yeah, fair, isn't it? Dairy. You little fucking Dairy. So much anger. Oh, is there? You know how it's Gareth's can be. Take it easy, Garth. No, you son of a fucking bitch. You son of a bitch. Oh god, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one buck. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickle you, Quadgames. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what, Frank? Hi, Gary. No, I see you're done, my friend. No, no! All right. Well, the reason why I think this story is a little more appropriate is because of what has just happened. There's something in the news. The movie The Interview got pulled because they decided to make a movie about assassinating and actually carrying through the assassination of Kim, I forget the kids name, Kim Jong-un. Kim Jong-un, right, yeah. It's so weird that the last part of his name is UN. Yeah, it's great. So I brought it. Well, he is a United Nations. He is a United Nations. But the thing is that not a lot of people, or maybe they do, but film Hollywood cinema in the Jong family, it starts with dad, Kim Jong-il. So we're going to talk about Kim Jong-il a little bit. The first guy. Kim Jong-il, Kim Jong-un's father. Yeah. The guy who we at this point miss a little bit. That guy, a little scamp. Born February 16, 1941, though official accounts do place his birth a year later, some mystery surrounds when and where Kim Jong-il was born. According to North Korean historical literature, Kim Jong-il was born in a log cabin inside a secret base on Korea's most sacred mountain, Mount Pekdu. Wait, why is he in a log cabin? At the moment of his birth, a bright star lit up the sky, the seasons spontaneously changed from winter to spring, and rainbows appeared. Jesus Christ. It's a big birth. You could have done with any. It would have been amazing. It's a big birth. But they're like, it all have just rainbow. And then rainbows. Rainbows. Rainbows. Rainbows. It just was, it was like. No, the double rainbow, the double rainbow guy was there. He was freaking out. It was like a, it was like a Fourth of July fireworks spectacular. Listen, just picture anything good and that's what happened. So we're like unicorns shot out of pigs' asses? Unicorns were vomiting delicious Pepsi Cola into the mouths of the citizens. It was a really, really big. It's a Skittles commercial. Yes, exactly. Fair enough. However, you'll probably be a little disheartened to know that this does contradict the way less interesting accounts of his birth that us Westerners believe in, which is that he was born in a guerrilla camp in Russia while his father was on the run from Japanese officials. So. That's completely different. One of the two. One of the two. There's not even any overlap. One of the two. I mean, it's an either or. I'm going to get with this. Look, Dave, I don't understand what's so hard to understand. Look, either he was born in a sacred mountain at the moment of his birth, a bright star lit up the sky, the season spontaneously changed from winter spring and rainbows appear where he was born into camp because his dad was running away from the Japanese. I remember when it did seem like winter just turned to spring. So I'm going to go with the first one. Yeah, that's what happened. It was a big birth. So Kim Jong-il's father, Kim Il-sung, was a bit of an army guy. After the Korean War, Kim Il-sung built a cult of personality around himself, making himself the unquestioned great leader of the country, which is an interesting way to rise to power, just sort of being like, it's mine, right? Like, it's not like the last piece of chicken. Excuse me. I'm super awesome. So who's running this? Probably just going to be in charge. Hey, how about this guy? And the great leader myself. The great leader also, which is what you call yourself. It's a little presumptuous. You name yourself that. It's a tad presumptuous. So Kim Il-sung began grooming his son for leadership early on, putting him in control of the propaganda and agitation department of the workers' party, which reading it now does sound a little funny. You're in charge of bullshit and fighting. All right? That's my boy. You're going to lie to that guy. You're going to punch him. Fair? You guys good? If he calls you a liar, beat the fuck out of him. Okay? Okay, it's in the bullshit and punch department. You good with that? We'll come up with a catch your business card title. Between 1970 and 1980, Kim Jong-il occupied several positions of increasing power. And by 1980, a personality cult began to form around him as the great leader's successor. So it's genetic that Kim Il-sung just sort of was like, I'm the coolest. Never bought it. And Kim Jong-il basically did the same thing. So everyone was like, well, he came from that other one. So he's awesome. And there the day he was born, so they knew something special was about him because of all the rainbows. Oh, right. Well, the rainbows happened. The rainbows happened. So they were... The winter turned to spring. Really? After that, do you really have to give the hard so? Oh, look, if I see a rainbow on a day a man is born, I follow him. If you vote for him, he's the next great leader. So he was a real daddy's boy. And his dad came to power and then he... Everybody is a daddy's boy to this guy. Like, yeah, he was, so was everyone on the fucking place. Yeah, that's true. So his dad gave the power to his son. So once Kim Jong-il became the supreme commander of the Korean people's... became commander of the Korean people, he actually changed the position of president. He actually abolished it and gave it a new title. The title was General Secretary of the Workers' Party and Chairman of the National Defense Commission. Because it's easier to say. Easier to say. It's catchier. It's good. It's a good thing to have. What's the acronym for it? The acronym for that would be... That's probably why it makes sense. It would be the GSWPCNDC. See, that makes more sense though. Catchy! You read it out like that. He pronounced that word. That's a good president. This is an easy word. He was designated as the supreme commander of the Korean people's armies, thus giving him the tools he needed to maintain complete control of the government once he took power. But weren't they already that? Yes, they were, yes, for sure. So he's just doing more of the same. He's got a new position title, so that's fun. Kim was known to personally manage the country's affairs and set operational guidelines for individual industries. So he had his finger on a lot of pies. He said to be arrogant. He was said to be arrogant, self-centered. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. You're telling me this guy's arrogant? Yeah. After everything you've read? Well... I don't know if I believe this. If a unicorn blew you when you were born, wouldn't you have a little bit of a chip? I guess that's true. Yeah, I mean, come on. Hey, I'm the fucking rainbow guy! Yeah, you wouldn't. I mean, being the rainbow kid is like being a child's star. You're like, this kid's gonna grow up shitty. I mean, look, he believes that a fuck rainbow is... Come on. What the fuck is he gonna do? There's no way. He's probably gonna become a junkie. This does not work out. Did you see the Dana Plato story? I mean, right. Same deal. What are you talking about North Korea? He also, he openly rejected criticism. He was not a fan. He was not a fan of opinions that differed from his. Okay, right now we're talking about my dad. But I love that he openly rejected criticism. No, Dave. Nope! Dave, he was one of those unique individuals who didn't like when people disagreed with him. So, you know, it's one of those quirks. It's one of his little quirks. I'm gonna openly just go ahead and say no to you. No. So... You just said that I was not this pretty later. And you know the reality too is like even just being able to have that printed, the reality is that he would fucking just kill anybody who just didn't believe him or disagreed with him. Okay, what I mean by open criticism, and when I say I'm rejecting, I'm rejecting it, I mean, I'm killing. I want that guy killed. I know, I'm a dollop. I want him openly killed. Like I want him to be shot in front of people. In front of everybody. And so everyone knows, get his family down here, we'll make a day of it. So, there are a lot of stories about his eccentricities, his Playboy lifestyle, the lifts in his shoes, the pompadour hairstyle that made him appear taller because he didn't like the people thought he was short, and his fear of flying. Was he short though? He was short. Or were you just seeing him as short? You know, now that I think about it, my eyes were short. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah. The eyes of my soul. You have a problem with your eyes. Yeah. That's a good point. Thank you for making that. Kim gave firm instructions that the party's monolithic ideological message be communicated constantly by writers, artists, and officials in the media, not arsonists, which is what I almost said. But that's what all the writers and artists wanted to do at that point. No, you fit, that's the fun material. If you fucking, if there's a guy that shot rainbows out of his asshole when he was born, then you want to be painting. And he wants us to talk about it. I think that's fair. I think he wants us to give it a little artistic integrity, which I'm fine with. According to official accounts, he revolutionized the Korean fine arts by encouraging the productions of new works and new media. This included art, film, and cinema. So he enjoyed art? He not only did he enjoy art, he was obsessed with movies. He was obsessed not only with movies, with western films. Was he super into critical thinking? Super into critical thinking too. Yeah. He wanted art to explore the boundaries, I imagine. The boundaries that he had set within a small property line. Right, the tiny little. Yes, exactly. Yeah, the small box is limitless in what you can explore. Yeah, stay in the circle. Yes. So he loved films. He was a huge film fan. He had a collection of more than 20,000 VHS tapes and DVDs. Oh my God. 20,000. That's insane. He reportedly his favorite movie franchises included Friday the 13th, Rambo, Godzilla, James Bond, Hong Kong action cinema, and by far the best any movie starring Elizabeth Taylor. What? He loved Liz. Oh my God. Oh my God, she's so drunk in this one. Yeah, he loved it, which is just so great. Look how drunk she is. It's just like when, like it is like in Bond films when the bad guy has like a fluffy kitty. You're just like, what is going on? But let me ask you something. He probably couldn't enjoy Friday the 13th, Part 3 the way I could. No. Because it was in 3D. Yeah. And I sat at theater in Santa Fe and I watched the rats coming at me and whatever else. But you also couldn't enjoy it on the same level as him because you'd never murdered anyone. Like it's almost a whole people. So you think about it like that. You guys, you brought, you, that's why I think you guys would have a great critiques show. We would have had a good, we would have had a good, well, we almost had a crossfire together. Is that right? Yeah, we almost did a crossfire. We're halfway into your first point. You get shot in the head. On the left, Dave Anthony. On the holy fuck, what the shit? On the left, Dave Anthony. On the he's 100% right of me, Kim Jong-il. Alrighty. Some quotes. No production of high ideological and artistic value can evolve out of a creative group whose members are not united ideologically and in which discipline and order have not been established. Jesus Christ. So that's a fun space to play in. That's not. The cinema occupies an important place in the overall development of art and literature. As such, it is as powerful an ideological weapon for the revolution and construction. That's exactly why people make films. Yes. Uh-huh. As a weapon. So what he is saying, you know, mixing history, political ideology and movie making, Kim encouraged the production of several epic films which would glorify the works written by his father. So if you're saying epic film, it's like a Paul Thomas, Samson or Quentin Tarantino, like there's just not a lot of editing. Exactly. Yes. That's what we're talking about. I think if there is one thing you will find in the, in some of the creative work of Kim Jong-il, you will find that editing is not a strong suit in the North Korean film department. So despite his creative influences on the industry during the 1970s, I mean the fact that he literally wrote the book on communist filmmaking called The Art of Cinema North Korean Movies Stunk. Nobody liked them. Yeah. They were not good. People did not enjoy them. Well, did he, what about the scripts? I remember this, was it the director that was writing the movie? You know, the problem was that there was just a creative influence inside that just wasn't making them work and he couldn't find out what it was. That's so weird. He was unable to put his finger on it. Strange. But he was frustrated. Yeah. He really, it was so obsessed with film that this drove him crazy. So did he know they were bad movies? I think he did. I mean, I think he, he definitely did. I mean, he, because he's continuing to try to make them better. He like, you know, Japan and even South Korea were like making films that people were actually responding to. And here he was with 20,000 movies and he couldn't make a fucking film to save his life. Well, I love a story about art, so continue. Well, and keep in mind the plots were great. So he's frustrated. So he sought, he sought help by forcing 11 Japanese cultural consultants into servitude during the late 70s and early 80s. They had to have several die inconveniently on the job, some by their own hands. Did he kidnap them? Yes. He kid, basically he took 11, he took 11 Japanese people and he made them try to make movies that had the North Korean, like what he's doing too, which is amazing is that he just, it's, it's his, it's his propaganda. It's just not going to get made right. So he's just fucking like piss that nobody can do it. Nobody can't do it right, but everyone's like, well, the plots of your fucking movies. Well, this terrible. It's like a bullshit. First of all, the title, your own title is horseshit. Your own. He's not, he's not good at. The title you gave yourself was bad. I can't even tell you about the movie. He is not good at titles. So he had to stop horses with stagecoaches and take bank money. Part two. Because you wonder how the first one end. So he was very frustrated. These people were dying. It's very frustrating when you, when you hire slash take a, a person who took come and make your film and then they kill themselves. Well they were there for a little while and a lot of them killed themselves. And so Kim, Kim was still on the search for his Orson Welles. Seth Rogen enter. Enter Seth Rogen, James Franco, which brings us to Shin Sang Ok. Okay. Love them. Love them. So he was a son of a prominent doctor of Chinese medicine. Shin Sang Ok was born in Chongjin at the northeastern part of the Korean peninsula at the time occupied by Japan. Shin studied in the Tokyo Fine Arts School, the predecessor to the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music in Japan before returning to Korea three years later. So basically he went off to Japan. He got all artsy fartsy, comes home to North, to South Korea where he's going to make films. Right. After he's learned all this. South Korean films are really good. I mean we all remember The Host, The Other Ones and all the others. I mean the list goes on and on. There's The Host, there's The Others, it's crazy. There's the sixth movie and the seventh movie. Other Ones and then the ninth is just crazy. There's the ninth one. It's crazy how it works. There's a whole bunch of them. There's so many. So Shin started his film career as an assistant production designer on Viva Freedom. Great title for sure. I mean look. Viva Index Korean Film, sure. I mean who doesn't say Yay Freedom? I mean we all see that in Korean. Viva! It was the first Korean film made after the country achieved independence from Japan. So it really was, this was like as much as we're making fun of it, this really was starting to enter like the South Korean golden age of cinema. Right. Right. In like the 50s and 60s and after that Shin started directing prolifically. He was writing. He was making more than two films a year. He had the nickname, the Prince of Korean Cinema, the production company. He started Shin Films produced around 300 films during the 60s. Jesus Christ. 300 films. What they were like two day films? Like what the fuck is that? They were winning prizes though. The Prince of Yonsan, you remember that one from 1961. You love that one. Was the winner of the best film prize at the first Grand Belle Awards ceremony, which I know you're getting an award for. Oh yeah. I'm getting a grand belle for the pumpkin man. But he's on top of the world. Yeah. He's on top of the world. He's got films. He's doing what he wants to do. And what does he need? Well, he needs a dame by his side. So he begins dating the biggest star in Korean cinema at the time, someone named Cho In-hee. You're getting tough. You're getting tough. I think it's fine. But so she's hot. She's hot. She's the shit. Yep. This guy's fucking living the life. And he married her. So he made her an honest woman, right? Yeah, this story is awesome. However, that only lasted so long because in 1978, Choi divorced Shin. What? Shin was apparently having some affairs. She found out about it. Who's allowed to? He's the giant pumpkin man. I agree with you. I agree with you. But Choi was not into it. So it was clear that Shin was still the best director that Korea had to offer. Fuck yeah, it is. Even though he's divorced. I don't think anybody's debating that. Now, who do you think took notice of Shin? Probably some people in Hollywood. Kim Jong-il. Kim Jong-il took notice of what Shin was doing. It's so weird because you'd think the way their interests are, they wouldn't overlap. In 1978, Kim Jong-il hatched a plan. He would use Choi as bait to get Shin. What? What? Choi was kidnapped in Hong Kong. They're already divorced, right? They're divorced. But this seems like an end to the problem. You know how sloppy it is getting divorced. You still have emotions. Choi was kidnapped. His ex-wife was kidnapped in Hong Kong. She was taken to Hong Kong Docks, bundled the board, and taken on an eight-day trip to Pyongyang. Good. Good trip. A great trip. I've always said, if you want to go to Pyongyang, get a bag over your head and make it take eight days. Holy fuck. It's the best. Okay, look. You know what? It all sounds bad, but it's all for the good of film. Well, after hearing of his wife's disappearance, Shin traveled to Hong Kong to investigate, which I think makes sense. You want to know what happened? And he's rich? He's trying to get to the bottom of it. Yeah. Right. Unfortunately, at that point, Kim Jong-il had him kidnapped as well. Well, okay. So did he walk into the same warehouse? Was it like... Here's what I can tell you. It's like an empty chair, and he goes in. Someone suddenly pulled the sack over my head, and I couldn't see anything or breathe properly, he said. So have you ever seen the... What's the movie where the chick gets taken? Taken. The vanishing. So it's like the vanishing. It's like Taken. It's like the vanishing when the guy goes to a gas station. I mean, there's a better version that's, I think, I want to say, from Amsterdam, but for sure. But there's a woman gets taken from a gas station, and then she gets buried alive, and then the husband is going crazy, and he eventually somehow gets in contact with the guy who took her, and the guy says, I'll show you what happened to her. And then he takes the guy and buries her. Buries him. And he goes, that's what happened. Was that a North Korean film? Because it sounds very similar. That sounds like a very similar plot. So he's taken him. So Kim Jong-un had finally, Kim Jong-il had finally just kidnapped his Orson Welles. Thank God. So now it's on. Now we can make good North Korean movies. Now we can, look, he just got this guy, he got this guy, he brought him in, he just, again, he needs consultants. Can I just say that it worked out so well with the Japanese guys. Yeah. I can't see it doing anything but good. If you're Kim Jong-il, you definitely don't bring up the Japanese experiment. No, it's not. Okay. Yeah. The whole, you know, they had great ideas. They, look. Was the last thing that went through their head not a creative idea, but a bullet? Sure. Sure it was. But you know what? This one is, plus he's got the actress that he, and don't think that he doesn't plan on using her. So Choi was the first one to arrive after being kidnapped in Hong Kong by his secret agents in 78. I was really terrified. It was so frightening. I was in such a worried state that I couldn't eat or drink anything for ages. Finally I faded and later learned that they'd injected me with some sort of sedative. So it's a nice arrival. It's like when you get off the plane in Hawaii and they lay you. Well, it's like having a little bit of jet lag except you've been kidnapped. Except it's a sedative that they've injected you with. Because you've been kidnapped. You know how jet lag is. It was not long before the reason for the kidnappings had been made clear. Kim Jong-il confessed that the reason he had kidnapped his wife and the reason he had kidnapped him was because he wanted Shin to come and make films for him. North Korean films. With death being the other option, Shin Sang-ok said, okay. Yeah, well it's, hmm. So either you'll kill me or I can make movies? Yeah. So. I'm gonna go ahead and make movies. That's a great idea. Because the other one, you die. You, I mean, I feel like there should be some more negotiating room, but. Negotiating room is kind of when I shoot people. Go back to where I should. No, no, you live here now. It's gorgeous, isn't it? No, it's terrible. It's gorgeous. Is that a. A dead Japanese man, but don't look at that. Is that a 1944? Yes. Yes, that is. Is that. Oh. Yeah. Is there a problem or? No, we just have newer cars. This is the top of the line. Oh. Yeah. We're gonna have to go up to 20 miles per hour in North Korea. Okay. That's great. That's gonna sometimes go up to 20, 30 miles per hour. Yeah. This is gonna be. Sometimes. This is gonna be great. You're gonna love it. I love it here. So he's film man. So the couple of rides. Why is that person eating a flower? Hmm. Oh, her. Don't worry. She's we're gonna have her killed. She shouldn't be eating that. She's not allowed to eat flowers and she knows it. Well, they're all just eating plants. Yeah. They're all in a lot of trouble. They're not supposed to be eating those. Those are for torturing. Okay. Not for eating. I didn't know. You gotta learn hard and fast here. We play. We play hardball here, pal. I get it. So don't be eating flowers or looking at me in the eyes or disagreeing. They look really thin. Yeah. They are really the flowers. No, the people. We'll water them. We'll water those flowers. Okay. Soon after the couple arrived in Pyongyang, he took them on a private tour of his film library. Again, 20,000 films. This is all of my stuff. I mean, and you know how annoying it is now when you have like VHS tape. Yeah. So somewhere right now, 20,000 VHS tapes. Just like, what the fuck are we going to do with all these Elizabeth Taylor movies? I know I'm just kidding at you, but I want to show you all my awesome shit. Which is great, which is really like a theme, obviously, in this is that he, while he kidnapped them, he was going to kill them if they did anything besides that. He also was kind of being like, you know, which just the three of us creatively working together. Yeah, we are the same. Yeah, we're buddies. What? So sorry that they kidnapped you guys. Anyway, now that you're here and I could undo it, let me take you on a tour. What's the fucking Santa Bernhardt, the comedian movie? Oh, yeah, yeah. Punchline. Yeah, no. The King of Comedy. King of Comedy. Right. This is like the King of Comedy. Yes, it's like the King of Comedy. Except it's another country. Yep, exactly. He took him, told them that he had placed $2.5 million into an Austrian bank account and told Mr. Shin that the money would be available for him to make quoting good films. So again, he's on just on the quest to make some good fucking movies. And this is 1970. This is in the 70s when they were kidnapped late 70s. That's a good budget. Nice, nice chunk of change to make some fucking propaganda bullshit. Now, initially the director was not sure exactly what the North Korean meant by a good film. Until he took note of what he had watched most often. So he noticed that he liked Bond films, he liked Elizabeth Taylor, he liked Godzilla. Okay. These were all films that he so- Put them all together and what do you get? Well, over the next two years, Mr. Shin made more than 20 films. Holy, what the fuck. Many of them propaganda tales commissioned just by Kim Jong-il. So Kim Jong-il is telling him, you know, only make good films, but again, he's being like, here's the films you should make. I want you to make good films. Here's the script. Yeah, exactly. He's like, yeah, do whatever it is, but make sure it's about people understanding that they need to listen. He's like, okay, cool. Okay, so this movie's about listening. Yes. And then the follow-up is called Obey. Yes, and please, these are good, right? Don't eat those flowers. The next movie is called Don't Look Me In The Eyes. I'm not short. And I'm not short too. So Life Would Be On Yang for the lovely couple was not just making films and ball gowns. Shin was actually unhappy. How were they getting along, the two of them? I believe, at this point, I believe that they are kindred spirits. They never got back together. They didn't. They did not get back together. Because that would be like, you wanted... That would be great. It would be a good movie end. But unfortunately, that's not what happened. They were definitely on the same page of let's get the fuck out of here. This is horrible. This is a nightmare. By the way, this is a terrible thing that's happening. So Shin, they both hated it. And a couple of times, Shin actually tried to escape. However, both attempts fell short and he was caught. Oh boy. Awkward. Super awkward. Super awks. You know what? I'll put it in a movie. Don't do that. I was doing character research. Don't do what I did. Running away, man. But you know Kim Jong-il, nice guy, right? He wants to help them. So he just sentenced them to long prison terms for their insubordination. Oh my god. There they would receive reeducation classes designed to teach them the error of their ways. This is fucking crazy. No, it makes sense. I was jailed for about five years. But I didn't know at the time that it would end up being that long. If I had known from the start, I would have rather been dead. During this time, I was very, very, very depressed. They expected brainwashing to change me. What? His wife also ordered to attend the reeducation classes was forced to study North Korea's glorious revolution and later made to sit in on exams on the subject. What? So they tried to fucking, because he fucking kidnapped them, they tried to fucking leave. He would fucking bring them back and not see that the problem was that they, he just thought he could break them. Right. He was like, well, no, you're here now. You're here. Did he call himself the master of puppets? I would think that he did at some point. I am the master of puppets. And plus, you guys get to make movies. For me. For me. How awesome is it that you get to make, before you were just making movies for everybody, now you get to make movies for me. Well, I know how stifling it can be to make films about literally anything that you want. So here's a, here's a pinhole. I'm going to use some very small parameters. Work within that. Work within that. She was, she was also, she was also going through the brainwashing. Her quote. I was very unhappy. I did think of suicide, but then I thought of my family and how much this would hurt them. It was just an awful time. That was an obvious magazine. I had read this week's issue of obvious, well, no shit. I would kill myself, but it would hurt my family. And they're separated too, and they both do just talk about how like literally all they thought about was killing themselves. Like they just, they just wanted, the only reason why they didn't was because they had a family. So his, so he was kept in an all male prison. By the way, this is going to happen to Seth Rogen and James Franco. Well, that's what's, it's so fun. Maybe that's what's so fucking crazy to me about all this is that like you know, like you think about it, like North Korea is the fucking worst. The idea, the idea that we would listen or that anyone here would listen to North Korea about anything. Let me just say, I'm going to go on record right now. North Korea did not hack anything. You don't think? Nope. So then what the fuck? Why, why? Because Obama, I mean, they're saying that they did. I know. They said, they said that they said that Snomersane attacked. That who was? Snomersane was part of 9 11. They said that. Yeah, I agree. For sure. It's a total bullshit. But I also think that a huge mistake that was made was that Sony decided to not release the film. I totally agree. I mean, I think like if you, if you wanted to put out there, hey, look, this fucking little dickhead is crazy and he's saying he's going to bomb theaters. If you want to wait, you might just want to wait. Right. But the idea that we would be like, take it away from him. I know. I mean, this guy's been like, I could shoot nukes at California and we're like, okay, fuck, I stick cancel. Oh, you're going to bomb a movie theater. Yeah. I mean, it just is crazy. I'm very upset by it, as you can tell. I'm just so emotional. Anyway, uh, Oak was kept in an all male prison for, for those years where he was forced to survive. And this is really fucked up. Seriously, this is the guy that, this is the fucking director that he loves. This is Orson Welles. But so then why is he put, why is he putting him? Because he has to teach him. He tried to escape two times. So he's trying to break him as a man. He's trying to break him as a man and he's trying to change his thinking completely. But for, for when he was in jail, he was forced to survive on a diet of grass, salt and rice but wait as punishment for trying to escape backup. That's just the North Korean national diet. That you know, that's not far off. I don't know if they actually had my, that's true. But if you've ever had that, they serve it down at the grass, the grass train. I'll tell you, I actually love the grass train. Have you been to grass and rice? Well, you know what's funny is that, um, what he had is not too similar, not too far away from my actual diet. Uh, not so much the salt, but the grass and rice, yum. Oh, no salt for me today. Thanks. So he's in, so he's in jail. Hasn't seen his wife in five years. He's thin. He's thin. He's got that beach body we're all going for. He's got that sweet dexter trim thighs. He looks good. And he was finally released and reunited with his wife at a lavish government party. Shin recalled the conversation he had that evening with Kim Jong-il over soft drinks at the event, which by the way, wait, wait, hold on, slow it down. Yeah. Okay. So we just, now when they say soft drinks at the event, are they, is it like bragging? You know, knowing North Korea, it totally is like, you know, he comes out, he's like, I see you, uh, have a Dr. Pepper. We have a party. We have a Dr. Pepper. We have a Mr. Pib. Oh, so the past. Oh, I'm not going to have a squirt. Huge event. Seven up anyone? It's like a, uh, so he's, so they're there. He's just gotten released and he's at a government event and he's having fucking drinks with the guy. You know, Kim Jong-il and him are chewing the fat, having a fat chew. The day he got out, he's brought to a government event. Yeah, but I guess that makes sense because- Because what Kim Jong-il does is he makes it so that you don't connect him with this stuff. That's what he's trying to do. Oh, gotcha, gotcha, so he's like, hey, I gotcha. So the people are kidnapsed, so he kidnaps them and then he takes them on a tour. Where were you? He throws them in jail. I was looking for you at this time. Yeah. Yeah. And he- I had a Mr. Pib here at those four times. Which has got to be, as somebody like in the palm of his hand, you have to just be like, I'm so fucking scared. Fucking crazy. But, look at me, look at my eyes. Yeah. You love Mr. Pib, right? The dead. I'm here. Oh, cool, Soda. I just thought about suicide for five years while I ate grass. I had no idea. But I had Mr. Pib the whole time and you- I didn't know where you were. You're an awesome guy, sir. I had known where you were, I would have totally gotten you out. But I just found out yesterday because I was like, where's the guy that makes my movies? Yeah, I wish you'd asked that four and a half years ago, but cool. It's great to be here having Soda. You know what, here we are. You want to talk about movies? I do want to talk about movies. In the past five years, they've made some hum-dingers. Wouldn't that be amazing if he was like, well, so we found somebody who's really good. I'm just going to have you killed. Have you heard of Robert Evans? Bob Evans. Because shit has changed while you were in the hole. You know, one of the better decisions I made was kidnapping Bob. Ever since I kidnapped Bob to here, we've just been- it's really been blossoming. The motherfucker stays in the picture. Also a whale barfed when I was born. What? A whale? Yeah. A whale. Okay, so he's talking to Kim Jong-il. The North's filmmakers are just doing perfunctory work, said Kim. They don't have any new ideas. Their work has the same expression, redundancies, and the same old plots. All our movies are filled with crying and sobbing. I didn't order them to portray that kind of thing. But the truth is- Stop crying. I can't. I'm in North Korea. I mean, exactly. So- Didn't you get enough grass last night? I mean, at the movies, you just get like putting salt on your grass in a little box like it's popcorn. It's really good grass. Oh my god. But that's the thing, right? Is like he wants people to express themselves. Art will reflect what's happening in the world. And all they know- And in their world- All they know is hell. It's fucking hell. All it is is sobbing and crying. I think this is during their Great Starvation period, if I'm not wrong. But we can't wait for that to end. The period's been going on for quite some time. So Shin and Cho went back to work for the fucking regime. But what else would you do? It's another choice. No other choice. You have to pick up rocks. And keep in mind, they were locked down. They were not like- Yeah. There was no- I mean, besides trying to literally run out of North Korea, they had no other fucking option. So they went back to making films from their situation. It was obviously not comfortable. Does the rest of the world know what happened to them? This story? Or at the time? No, at the time. I don't know. I mean, obviously, like Korea, South Korea is going to know they've gone missing. But I don't think there was enough evidence or push. And also, it's the same thing with the interview. I mean, nobody wants to fuck with this country because it's like a cornered hornet. So you're just sort of like- You don't- The only thing it's going to do is sting the fuck out of you. Can we please rename it cornered hornet? Cornered hornet. So that's the problem is that just nobody wants to fuck with them. If you get kidnapped, it's almost like you got a disease. You're like, well, I'm sorry you got it, but I don't have it. Take care. Die it out. See you later. So their situation was not comfortable. They were essentially under house arrest. They were not allowed on set sometimes because trust had been fractured for these films they were making. Oh, yeah. But Shin had unparalleled access to the reclusive Kim. He listened to me because we were from South Korea, Shin said. Even though we criticized some things, he wanted us to be honest. Others would have been killed for speaking so honestly. So he does have this weird platform where Kim Jong-il will actually let him disagree. He has so much respect for him as a filmmaker that he doesn't kill him. He doesn't kill him. He'll let him disagree. It's that kind of freedom that allows art to really prosper. What a comfortable environment and creative space to play in. From 1983 on Shin directed Sevens. By the way, Spielberg is the same way. Very similar. If he respects you, he won't kill you. No, I remember a lot of people died on Jaws. But if you're a PA, forget about it. Oh my God, don't fuck with him. From 1983 on Shin directed Seven Films with Kim Jong-il acting as an executive producer, which just has to be a comfortable set when your EP is behind you and you know put you on a grass diet for five years in jail. Hold on. I love the script. I just want to... I want to make it known that I want to be EP on this one. Great. Yeah, great. Okay. Well, we want to make sure you're on set a lot. Everybody feels really comfortable when you're around. Yeah. I mean, when Kim Jong-il is on set, you miss the network. That's how fucked up that guy is. You see the new crying and sobbing on the EP on that one? I know it's my country, but I'm the EP. A great two that he complains about crying and sobbing films because he was using North Korean actress and actresses who probably couldn't take breaks from weeping because of their fucking living conditions. So these films are not good. What? These films are not good, but the best known of these films is a film called Pulgisari. Fuck yeah, it is. Pulgisari, it's a giant monster film made similar to Godzilla. Oh yeah. So I'm going to give you the plot of Pulgisari. Fucking roll it out. Pulgisari, in feudal Korea, the evil king becomes aware that there is a peasant rebellion being planned in the country. Oh great, we're going to have to stop that. He steals all the iron and farming tools and cooking pots from the people so that he may make weapons to fend off the peasant army. After he returns to the property of the people, an old blacksmith is imprisoned and starved to death. His last creation is a tiny figurine of a monster, Pulgisari, a Godzilla-like creature that eats iron. The blood of his daughter brings the creature to life and fights with the poor, starving peasants to overthrow the corrupt monarchy. It's very strange like that. Because why would he make a movie about revolution? It's really weird. Maybe because he thinks he won't be, because they think they were the revolution? I think why he allowed it to be made was because he was sick of crying and sobbing in films. I really do. Like I think that like Shin, Shin was just like, he saw that he loved Godzilla and probably just pitched him something that was more like Godzilla-ish and had something that the people would fucking respond to because naturally he would think this would be a movie about a monster like shutting people to fuck up, but it's actually a movie about, you know, rebelling a little bit. Right, but that shouldn't be in that kind of country. It should not be in that movie. I guess the other thing too, if you're Kim Jong-il, you're like, nobody's gonna fucking do anything. Right? I mean- They had this shit locked out. I just had steak for breakfast, they've eaten grass for the last three years. The next movie's gonna be called Lockdown. So don't worry about this one. You know when I made Fuck You, it was a real roller coaster experience. Have you seen Go Eat Dirt? I know. When we thought of that one. Yeah, remember when I came up with the idea for Go Eat Dirt? Oh boy. What a Eureka moment. Rainbows shut up everywhere. Oh my god. A unicorn high-fived me. So okay, go. Well the problem is that some of the films took actual years to finish. So Pulgasari aside, in some of the films you can actually see age and continuity. One will literally look ten years older in a scene and then minutes later will look miraculously young again. So that's part of the problem with- That's called the flash forward, flash back. And that's part of the problem with putting your fucking filmmakers in cast in prison for years. Well, you say that, but I think it helps the artistic integrity of the film. I mean imagine the prison doing hair and makeup when you show up. I would pay money to have Tyler Perry put in prison and then let him out and then put him back in prison again. Yeah, it would be great. Right? Oh, for him, yeah, that'd be great. Medea has weird time changes. Oh my god, what if the new guy kidnapped Tyler Perry? That would be great. That was the end result if he kidnapped Tyler Perry. That would be great if he was just like, who's the best filmmaker in the west? Tyler Perry. Get him. Finally, in 1986, the first time since they'd been kidnapped, the couple were given permission to travel abroad together. What? Why would he do that? They'd been in North Korea for eight years and it's the first time. And the reason was because they were allowed to go to a film festival in Vienna. What? They were heavily chaperoned by Korean soldiers. None of this makes sense. They were heavily chaperoned. None of this doesn't make any sense. What? What does he think? He controls the world? He's fucking crazy. Well, that's the thing with him, right? Is that he totally does think he controls the fucking world. You know what? You guys can go to Cannes. Go to Cannes? That's pretty great. Who are you airing? I think you should take the new movie. Take We're Eating Husks. Head down there to France. And really make a big splash. Let him know about the sequel, Barfing Husks, which we're excited about. But the reason why he did let him go is obviously because it would promote North Korean cinema. Which is terrible. And also, he's kidnapped these people. He has kidnapped these people and now he's asked them to go into the real world. It's a great plan. I don't know what could go wrong. Nothing goes wrong. How could this go sideways? Well, okay, maybe a little something went wrong. They did manage to persuade their guards to travel in a taxi behind them as they were headed for the festival. What? This just doesn't even... What the fuck? Well, you know how it is. You don't want to squeeze six in. Oh my God. Okay, but you guys are going to follow us, right? Yes, we are going to follow you right behind. Look at me in the eyes. You're going to follow us. Yes. So we'll see you at the hotel. Yes. We will see you at the hotel. Absolutely. Promise. Run. Promise. Promise. You promise? Promise. Alright, we'll see you at the place. Run. We got to a crossroads where we were supposed to turn left for the festival. Okay, so here's the deal. How did you escape? We made a right. Like, that's the... Our Minder's car was following about 30 meters behind us, but several other cars had gotten in between us and them. So we told our driver to turn right instead. Turn right towards the United States Embassy. Seconds later, the car behind them realized that something was wrong. Holy shit, you guys, they're not following us. And also just picturing it. They said they were going to follow. Picturing it like a roundabout or like something where you sort of like, oh, come on, we got to move. That's literally the future of North Korean cinema just turned right. This is how fucked up they are in North Korea. They are so scared of the great leader that even if they're in another place, they won't disobey. So they think that they're just going to keep following. That's how fucked up they are. That's very true. That is really true. They probably were like, well, they won't divert from the plan because they know what happens when you divert. You eat grass from a bucket. No, they'll just be in the U.S. Embassy eating a nice steak dinner. Well, they did head towards the U.S. Embassy and seconds later, the car realized and they radioed the taxi that the shins were in and asked their driver to tell them which way he'd gone. So they lose them and then they're like, yeah, copy, come through. Hey, where the fuck are you? Hey, you have our kidnapped people. We really need to keep kidnapping those people. And also, could you keep the fare down? Also, yeah, I don't know if the meter's running. We will not pay for all this. They're escaping the side. No, we did not say make a right. So this on you. However, and again, you're going to love how delicious this is, the couple quickly handed him a sizable tip and told him to lie about which way they'd gone. Say they'd gone in the opposite direction. Oh my God. So the Stooges were thrown off. Jesus Christ. Soon they arrived at the U.S. Embassy, but they could not find anywhere to stop outside. And the couple had to get down the road. We tried to run as fast as we could, but it felt like we were in some sort of slow motion movie hitting falls in this North Korea. Well, everything, their whole life is same thing, things through movies. I mean, imagine, yeah. Finally we burst through the embassy's door and asked for asylum. They didn't need asylum. They're Japanese. Listen, when you're Korean, whatever, you just go anywhere where there's anyone else and you're just like, don't fucking let me go. You don't need asylum. You just run and say, I've been kidnapped by North Korea. Yeah, but you just anything. You're just like, give me a blanket of water. Finally we burst through the embassy's doors and asked for asylum. On hearing the news, Kim Jong-il, on hearing the news, Kim Jong-il became convinced that the couple had been kidnapped by the Americans and sent them a message offering them to help get them back to Pyongyang. It was an offer they could easily refuse. Look, there's no way they ran away from this awesomeness. It's amazing, right? They couldn't, you know what, they, look at this. He jailed them. He jailed them. They're out of there for five years. It's like the country is being run by actual crazy people. It's actual crazy people. I mean, he didn't think that they would possibly, like there's no way they would not them. They would not do this. We had talked about a beautiful future of Korean cinema. It's fucking mind-boggling. Kim Jong-il died on December 17th, 2011 of a heart attack while traveling on a train, which by the way is also like, they beefed up his birth so much. I would really love it if like they could just come up with a better death story for him. I mean, I'm just so amazed I made it across the sky. A shit comet flew across the air. You knew his soul was gone. Media reports say that the leader was on work doing official duties. Upon the news of the deer leader's death, North Koreans marched into the capital, weeping and mourning. Have you ever seen the footage of the North Koreans when Kim Jong-il died? No. Anyone should Google it. Oh shit, I have. Because it's, it's very crazy. It's very sad, but it's very crazy because what happens is they, they have to pretend to be sad. So it's, you know, thousands of people in the middle of, you know, the city going like, oh, wailing, but there's not one fucking tear. There's not a tear. You couldn't find a tear. And some of them, and some of them are not good at fake crying, but they're all, oh, they're just weeping their fucking heads off. It's really. And that's my story. It's, it was too normal. So that's the, that's the Christmas dollop. Wow. Fucking wow. But it, the reason why I think we thought that we should do that was just because of what has literally just happened. And it, it just is so fucked up. And I'm so against it. And I'm so pissed because I really think that that has probably fucked with film forever. Well for, yeah, for a long time. Without a doubt. Yeah. And I just want to, I mean, I'm wondering when the new Polkisari reboot is. And I'm still on record as saying it's not, it's not going to be North Korea at the end of the day. That's great. It's going to be some hacker. It's going to be probably some sort of insider at Sony who's mad at the company. There's a lot of weird stuff in the actual record. Like the, apparently the, the, the Korean that has been left as traces isn't, isn't, they speak a different Korean in North Korea. Oh really? And it's not, it's like. So it's like the South Korean Korea. It's what you would leave if you were trying to leave the print of Korean. Right. But it's not. It's like, it's not the crazy dialect that they use. Well that's good. Yeah. That's all good. It's all good. That's the exciting time. Fuck man. I had no idea. Those poor two fucking people. It's terrible. And there, there's a lot. I mean, you know, you can't say enough about how awful that situation is. This is why you don't go into film. Yeah. This is why you don't go looking for your ex-wife. I wonder if he still has the VHS tapes. Do you think they still have the VHS tapes? What I love is like the idea that like, maybe it's just like, like here, like I put a bunch of shit in my closet that I like. I just love the idea that they're, they have like a garbage room where they've just got 20,000 fucking. And then they go to another room and it's laser discs. Yeah, laser discs. I really thought this was going to be a thing. Yeah. Yeah. He's got his MP3 player. He's like, God, I really overbought, dad really overbought an MP3. He's didn't even, dad really, dad really got behind laser discs is the next thing. Holy fuck. All right. Merry Christmas, David. Let's hope they kidnap Seth Rogen and by the way, you want to hear a little Seth Rogen fact? Yeah. The, and when he there decided to make the movie, Seth, someone at the studio was like, we can't make this with Kim Jong-un. Yeah. Seth Rogen was like, no, no, we got it. It's going to be great. We got to do it with him. So every step, but people would, people would object and he would say, no, we got to do it. But he almost punched it through. I know he was a week away from punching it through. But this is why they were worried about it. Of course. And, and I will say it is, I, I believe like it's tough to defend this, but I believe he was right. I believe he, he did not do it. I think he did. It's tough to defend this, but I believe he was right. I believe he did make a film that I was much more interested in seeing because they had literally based it on the guy who's the fucking dictator right now. No one would want to see it if it was based on a false person. And now at the end of the day, had they made it with a false person for sure, the movie would have made more money and gotten seen. But over zero over zero. But again, the zero part is not Seth Rogen's fault. That's the fucking pussy studio. And the, in the theater chains and the theater chains. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Now Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. That's