 Welcome to the dollop, a historical podcast. Each week, I, Dave Anthony, read a story of American history to my friend, Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is about. Of course he doesn't. What do you mean? God, do you want a little hit or do you? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. I'll do one or something as tickling. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling, Quad. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. Has he done, my friend? No. No. I don't like that you have the power to decide when we go into the intro and what we go into. You know exactly what I mean. Look at your fucking smile. Well, it's great because almost every time you say something after that initial moment is off mic. Yeah. I'm spinning gold. People don't think you're funny. I mean, what are we doing? Is this a dollop or did you just come over here and fucking roast me? Your fire extinguisher is not there. Your fire alarm, I mean. Was it beeping? No. Oh, that? Yeah, that was beeping a little too much. And then you took it out and didn't replace the battery? Yeah, something like that. Because this apartment could be like a... This is combustible. Yeah, it looks like a kid. Yeah. It looks like one of those tenement fire apartments. Well, thank you. Thanks, of all. You should come over more often, Dave. Thanks. I don't mean that. In January, I am doing the Riot Festival on the 17th. This will come out. I think this will be our first one in January. Oh, no. This will be the end of December. And then on the 11th, I am at Rendezvous Comedy Show in downtown Los Angeles. I want to... Well, here, I'll play some... I'll play at the end of this. Oh, and the Melbourne International Comedy Festival tickets for my show, Hothead, are now on sale. You can go to the Facebook page. You can go to a link at DaveAnthony.com to find those... Link to the ticket sale place there. And I'll put it up on Twitter. Sound good? Sounds great, dude. Oh, here we go. I'll be at Velvet Jones in Santa Barbara on January 9th at 8 o'clock. Let's say I'm triply. Velvet Jones. That's right. What kind of... Is that a... What's a place? Strip Club or is it a... It's probably not a strip club. Quit digging. This is the fourth and final installment of our Los Angeles Police Department month. Sad. Yep. Although I did find another story that we might do on the Los Angeles Department down the line. It's pretty crazy. I stumbled across it. God, LAPD's fucked up. LAPD's Rampart Division. Okay. That's all I get from you? Yeah. Rampart. Yeah, I know Rampart. Okay. Do you know about Rampart? I guess no. It has 330 police personnel providing service to about 100,000 people. 164,000 people in a compact 5.5 for square mile area. Are you in Rampart? I don't think I am. You're close to Rampart. You're on the edge of Rampart. So it's a population with a similar density to Manhattan Island and it's one of the busiest police stations in the nation. It's a lot of gangs. Right. It's East Sidey. It's a lot of gang. East Sidey Los Angeles, they include the 18th Street Gang, the Mara Salvatrucha Gang, the Echo Park Gang, Rockwood Gang, Crazy Riders Gang, Temple Street Gang, Whitmer Street Gang, the Clanton 14 Gang, the Burlington Locos Gang, the Wanderers Gang, the Vario Vista Rifa Gang, the Head Hunters Gang, the Diamond Street Gang, the Big Top Locos Gang. I love that one. La Marada Locos Gang. Jesus Christ. So there's a lot of gangs there. I don't know who you want to roll with. Oh, I'm Echo Park Gang. I mean, really? You're Echo Park Gang? Yeah. Or the Big Top Los Locos. Right? They got a fucking great name. The Circus Crazy, I like. I like it with the Burlington Locos. I like that move. Because they're all about coats and they're crazy. I didn't know the coat thing. Yep, Burlington Coat Factory. Burlington Coat Factory. Yo man, get that coat off your back, man. How great would it be if that was their gang? Burlington Coat Factory, guys, please stop associating with us. We got your back, Burlington. We got. We local for Burlington. Like we're saying, please do not come on these premises anymore. Yo, it's like we said, it's all about the coats. Nobody said that. Please get out of here. To combat the gangs in 1977, the LAPD set up an entire elite group of anti-gang units called Total Resources Against Street Hoodlums. Catchy. Unfortunately, the acronym for that is Trash. Oh, fuck. What's up, we're Trash. Wait, what's up, we're pending name. Trash is here. Oh, shit, it's Trash. Oh, shit, man, it's Trash. Please call us by the full name. Okay, garbage. Fuck. I mean, we really fucked up. Hey, what's up, rubbish? Throw coats on them. Kick the fuck out of them under coats. Yeah. So they switched the name from Total to Community and renamed it Crash. Better? Crash is better. Better, but still stupid. It's not as bad as Trash. Yeah, I mean, they're really married to the last four, I guess. Crash officers were required to get to know gang members, their names, their habits, their friends, and to keep on top of gang activity. So there's the intelligence side where they get to know all the gangs by their nicknames. Okay. So where they hang out, what kind of cars they all drive. Then there's the crime suppression mode where they're trying to keep them from doing drive buys and robberies and extortion and spray-pending buildings, you know, the other stuff. Sure. So you've got to get to know their nicknames, see their pets are, and then keep tabs on the drive buys. We're Crash. So quote. Ready? Yes. As a Crash officer, you're assigned to a specific gang. It's my job to know who's in that gang, what their nicknames are, what their girlfriend's pad is, what kind of cars they ride around in, what their tattoos are, and where their mom lives. That includes knowing, I know. Hey, essay, where's your mom? Yeah, I mean, I get that they're being like, we need to know everything, but maybe we could come up with a more appropriate list that shows how all-encompassing this policy is, as opposed to just being like, where is Shoelaces? What's his wallet smell like? Hey man, what color short you have, and where's your mom living right now? Hey man, how many keys do you have in your key chain? When's your birthday? Oh no, I'm with Crash. So I need to know this stuff. Yeah, we used to be Crash. Yeah. Yeah, no, I see that cocaine in your hand. Let me see those keys. All right. Where's your sister live? Why do you want to know what my sister lives, essay? And your mother. Just trying to keep track of you. Hey, don't worry about it. We're with Crash. So that includes knowing the history of the gang, how it started, where it originated, how it came to be, and what the gang is all about. Okay. That's fine. The origin. The origin. I need to know the origin story of the gang. Yeah, well you always want to know how to do it. I mean, I'm sure it started as just a simple pipe dream one day on a porch. Hey sit down, essay. What tell you a story? We started with Marco in 73. Did I ever tell you how big top locos came to be? Sit down, you're going to want to hear this one. We was at the circus. We beat the fuck out of a clown. We fucked up a clown and an elephant, man, and we were like, we should be a gang. We should do this more often. Look, every time a precious clown peanuts come out. Oh my God, the clown's like, I'm dying. Look man, it's like a peanut machine. You go out and you talk to them every day, eight hours a day. That's where your job is in Crash. Get out and get into these gangsters and talk to them on a daily basis. That's how you get to know them. So that's how you get to know them. That thing could have been edited really easily. Yeah. There's a lot of talking. The funny thing is I did edit a lot of what they said, but there's just a lot of repeating of what they said. We get it. Yes, so there we go. We talk to them. All right. The gang members know you. You go pat them down. Make sure they don't have any guns or anything, and then you'll talk to them. What's going on? How you guys doing? Hey, we heard so-and-so got killed last week. What happened? Oh, those fools from the other neighborhood drive by and shot them. Hey, Wenz's funeral. We don't know yet because we don't have enough money to bury him. His family can't afford to bury him. We're having a car wash on Tuesday. Okay. I'm sorry. Yep. So, at this point- So, cops- As far as I can tell- Cops get it. Cops get how it all works. As far as I can tell, cops are a lot like a cheerleading squad from Larker Center High School. Yeah, they're very, really good. Really go pat them down. I mean, how is that? In what world? Hey, man, what- Do you see honesty coming out of that? My homie got shot. We're having a car wash. Okay. Do you have any guns on you? No, I have no guns, man. We're pretty much done here. You want to hit the car wash for our homie? I know. I'm not even good with that. He died, man. Yeah, I know. When did he die? Last couple days. Where's your mom live? She's your what? Your sister? Hey, home. What? When's your birthday? What's your favorite type of gum? Crash units routinely stop and strip suspected gang members on street corners. They would take off their- except for their underwear, they'd take off their clothes to look at their tattoos. So I mean, it's just like overt undercover work. Yeah. Right, okay. Any three of the following criteria are enough to classify a person as a known gang member. Pfft. There's any two defined in associate. Okay, so anyone who hits two of these is implicated and anyone who hits three is a big dog. One, admitting membership. Oh my god. Okay, so let's try that one. Hey, homie, are you in a gang? Yes. Okay, so check off. Check that out. He's in a gang. He's in a gang today. Fuck. Two, associating with gang members. This way, it's so- Hey. Hey, homie, do you know any gang members? Do you hang out with gang members? Yeah. Okay, so check him out. Fuck! What is wrong with me today? Three, corresponding with gang members. Hey, homie, do you write any letters to any gang members? It's basically all I do. Why did I do that? Being- four, being identified by another police agency. Wait, what? Larry. Is that guy over there a gang member? Oh my god. Yes, he is. Dude, this needs to be written down. Five tattoos. Okay, cool. Six, writing graffiti. I mean, get that one a little bit more than having tattoos. Seven, wearing gang clothing. Wow, I mean, okay. This is really some heady shit. So now, they've just- everyone at East LA, they basically live in this gang member. If you have tattoos- And a white shirt. You fucking pants? Yeah, you're fucked. Yeah, forget about it. You can't wear jeans. According to the official LA coordinator of an inter-HC task force, only a very small portion of those arrested were actually hardcore gang members. Okay. That's great. Things in Rampart were done differently. One particular unit was in a building away from the main station because of space problems, without supervision. So you had sergeants, senior police officers, and others doing whatever they wanted. Good. Mm-hmm. Always, always, always good to hear. The Rampart crash unit had tattoos and patches they wore on jackets. And the tattoo and the patch had a cowboy hat with a skull, and then aces with aides on it. That doesn't sound good. It sounds like they might be considering themselves a gang. Holy shit! Okay, so it's a skull with a cop hat, like a cowboy cop hat, which is Rampart crap. It looks like it- It should make anyone feel comfortable in it. It looks like a gang tattoo, right? Yes. So what's this gonna say? If they wear blue, they technically have hit their own criteria. The aces and aides stood for the dead man's hand that Wild Bill Hickock had when he was shot. Wow. When an officer was involved in a shooting and the officer had a hit, he would get a plaque that had the aces and aides in it, a patch, and some other memorabilia. So if he shot a guy and he hit the guy, he'd get a- A weird sort of plaque? Masonic. A patch and then some other stuff, like maybe cigar and salt and pepper shakers. Cool. Like a little congratulations kit. Nice job, monkey. Hitting that guy with- Way to go. You shot that guy. Now let's ask questions. They would also put a couple of shell casings for the number of times that the officer had hit the person he was shooting at. Cool. Yep. There were two types of plaques. One was for a fatal shooting and one was for when they wounded somebody. Jesus. You even get plaques for woundings? Apparently. Their motto was, we intimidate those who intimidate. Terrible motto. That's the problem, right? Is that they're a gang. Well, yeah, now they seem like a gang. They're like the most powerful gang. Yeah, well, they're the gang that no one could do anything about it. Yeah, because they intimidate the intimidators. That's pretty lame. In 1986, Frank Leiga joined the LAPD after serving with the New York State Sheriff's Force. He was 29 years old and believed what he'd heard about the LAPD. It was professional, the best police department in the world. I'm used to the East Coast police. Not to knock on the East Coast, but a big fat cop sitting in a car eating donuts, drinking coffee. They couldn't get their gun out if their life depended on it. So. He's- Who would we rather, though? This day and age, who would you rather? I'd rather the docile cop who's eating donuts who can't really get his gun out of his holster fast. I'd like to know if you'd better. Frank Leiga's description of a good day at work is, quote, rockin' and rollin', puttin' people in jail. So he's like a cartoon. Cool, cool, cool. He's like a cartoon. Yeah. Okay, cool. March 18, 1997, he and other members of his team were staking out as suspected meth dealer. Leiga was sitting in his unmarked 1991 Buick Regal. He sat there for three hours, trying to look like an inconspicuous badass, with his Fu Manchu mustache and ponytail. Ooh, I'm liking the bells and whistles. Yeah, and dressed in jeans, a tank top, and a baseball cap adorned with a marijuana leaf logo. I love- That is always the funniest fuckin' thing. Like, outside of any festival show, how cops will literally have weed on their shirts. You're like, dude, we're not that obvious. Yeah, we get it. You're a cop. Hey, man, do you know where to buy some pot nugs? I'm really into pot, bud. Bud. When the deal was called off and the team agreed to reconvene at the Hollywood station, Leiga was on Ventilla Boulevard at a red light when a green SUV pulled up next to him. Uh-oh. Leiga says he glanced at the driver, a black man with a shaved head. Get him. The driver stared back. Boom. When Leiga wrote down his window and asked, can I help you? That part, I don't know if I believe. Well, yeah, I mean- I don't know. Can I help you? Hello. How can I help you, sir? Do you have any great poop on? The man- That was an old one. I'm reaching. The old- the man yelled back, ain't nobody looking at you, punk. Leiga, who prided himself on his Aryan Brotherhood cover, was surprised by the confrontation. He assumed that the other driver was a gang member, especially when the other driver in the SUV shouted, punk, I'll put a cap in your ass. So that's a good sign that- and by the way, this happens in LA like every two hours. I mean, right? Yeah. This is just driving home. Yeah, I had a guy like who wanted me to drive off the freeway with him to fight the other guy. Yeah, I had that. I had that. Which is like- That's my favorite. Well, you're like, no, I'm not going to take you to that level. We're fighting inside cars. But I have done what this guy is about to do. Leiga pegged him as a stone-cold gang member. He had a shaved head, he had a goatee, wearing a nylon jumpsuit, driving a sport utility vehicle, and the man threw gang signs at him. Leiga suggested that they pull over and have it out right there. You've said this? Okay, wait. The driver of the SUV did pull over, but Leiga bolted into traffic and drove off laughing as he went. That I've done. Yes. Yeah. The fake, let's go beat the fuck out of me. Yeah, yeah, I'll fight you. I'll fight you. All right, next exit. Let's do it. Next exit. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep going a little while. But you're an idiot. You want to fight people in the cars. Leiga recalls, quote, and I'm laughing and I'm watching him in the mirror and he looked like he was going to rip the steering wheel off. The other driver began to chase Leiga, but it was a slow motion LA chase because of all the traffic. The best. They were both slowly edging through traffic and Leiga radiated for help. Hey, I've got a problem. I got a black guy in a green Jeep coming up here. He may have a gun. Leiga stopped at a stoplight. The SUV started to pull up beside him on the left. Oh shit. I could see the other driver now and he saw what looked like a steel cased 45 caliber hand gun. Leiga leaned forward out of the fire and radioed he's got a gun. Leiga then raised his weapon and fired into the SUV. I almost could hear the impact, the thud of the round hitting him and I definitely saw his face. The SUV wheeled away in a U-turn, then rolled into a gas station and stopped. Leiga radiated a last transmission. I just shot this guy. I need help. Get up here. So that's a fun. What? Shit just went local, bro. Yeah, man. So do you want to know more? Yeah. I was just trying to say what do you want from me? Leiga pulled into the gas station holding his badge in his hand. Soon a CHP unit arrived followed by Leiga's boss and others on his stay-out team. A bullet had struck the driver on his right side, puncturing his heart, stopping in his lung. Leiga returned to the station and waited instruction. A little over two hours later, Leiga's boss told him about the man he'd shot. His name was Kevin Gaines. He was a cop. Fuck me. They got a third plaque. They should have a third plaque. Yeah. Wow, that's crazy. Yeah. You really had me on the edge of my seat. That was a big daddy. Leila Russell Poole was the first detective to start investigating the shooting. Poole learned that Kevin Gaines, a seven-year veteran, was moving money and drugs for rap music czar Marion Shug Knight of Death Row Records. Always good people to be in your surrounding groups. If you're a cop, just get him a Shug. So was he undercover or he was just shady? He was just shady, I think. A Death Row insider told him that Gaines and another cop, David Mack, were confidence of knights. Gaines had been living with knight's ex-wife, Sharitha, who was rapper Snoop Dogg's manager. Gaines was living well. He wore nice clothes and drove nice cars. He went to nightclubs. He had dropped $952 for lunch at a gangster hangout shortly before his death. He was under investigation by the Internal Affairs Division before he was killed. All right? No, not all right. So what, so, okay. So it's just a cop who's just hanging out with gang members. So he's a cop gang member? Because if you knew that was an option, why not do both? You could do both, I guess. Both sounds stressful, but probably with the most upside in benefits. Just 11 days earlier, a notorious BIG, aka Biggie Smalls, was gunned down while he was leaving a party at the Soul Train Music Award. No way to goddamn minute. Part was that Knight killed BIG as revenge for Tupac Shakur's murder. Poole had wanted to investigate Gaines' involvement with the murder, but the LAPD higher-up stopped him. They said, no, he's dead. The case is closed. Wait. Okay. So. But hold on. He wanted to investigate a murder. Yeah, right. And the LAPD said, no, he's dead. The case is closed. Well, I mean. That's your job. The case isn't closed when the guy dies. And it is great. I mean, that is like a whole, I mean, that's probably what we're embarking upon here, but that is like, it's crazy. They would not, like they will not, they've never let anyone like. No, they won't investigate. Get in touch with suspects or any of that shit. And you'll know why as we read this story. Does this guy have a we, okay. Yeah. Good questions. I just know a little bit about this, but I had not enough to. An informant said Kevin Gaines, Gaines and other cops provided security members for death row records using various criminal activities. The officers went on drug deals and acted as lookouts and advisors. The officers monitored police radios to help choose the best location for drug deals and gave information on police tactics. Jesus Christ. I feel like they're not cops at all. Oh, they're not cops. Let's just become official that they're not cops. Kevin Gaines was also prone to violent outbursts causing his wife to file several domestic abuse complaints and he had been involved in other road rage incidents. In one case, he threatened to cap a motorist to annoy him. Jesus. But the most egregious and strange episode was a year before when the LAPD responded to a 911 report of a shooting on the grounds of Sharitha Knight's house. Gaines, off duty, pulled up and became verbally abusive and provocative toward the other cops and had to be handcuffed. What? Quote, tell these motherfucking assholes to take the cops off me, motherfucker. Gaines shouted. He taunted the officers saying that he hated fucking cops. Now did when they, when they... It's like a Jewish guy who hates Jews. Quite a scene for sure. But do they, is it a big enough department where they don't know that he's a cop? It's an enormous department, so no, they wouldn't know each other at all. Imagine when they fucking run into each other and they're like, you know, fucking cop. What the fuck are you doing? But so he was probably just doing that to keep up appearances. He was trying to start a fight with the LAPD. That's pretty amazing. Gaines quickly filed a lawsuit for being mistreated. Jesus. What? I mean, how is he still a cop? He's worse than the bad lieutenant. How is he a cop a year later after this? When internal affairs investigated, they discovered that the 911 call had been made by Kevin Gaines himself. Okay. Get the plaque. The evidence suggested that he did that to engage the LAPD in a confrontation and that he wanted to secure a pension by filing a lawsuit. He wants a fucking pension too? Yeah. So he wanted to start a fight with the LAPD to get beaten up and then he could file a lawsuit. But he's dealing drugs. He must have like shitloads of money. He's like, I just really want that watch. Well, they didn't know he was dealing drugs yet. But he knows what is he pushing for? He just wanted to get, he wanted to get into fight with the LAPD so he could file a lawsuit. But that's just like, is that really going to be... Don't you know how to make money, bro? I think he's making a lot of money. He's with Shug and I and he's going on drug deals. Yeah, but he could get a nice pension with healthcare. I really... They don't have healthcare and gangs. I don't like pay cash. You think Shug Knight's got a good healthcare plan for his employees? I heard that Shug is really caring towards his staff. So... Gains funeral caused problems. The biggest association of black officers requested an official police funeral with full honors. A ceremony reserved for policemen killed in the light of duty. The police chief was put in an awkward position. A really awkward position. He's a crazy criminal cop. I don't know if we give him the private cop funeral. Chief Willie Williams was a black cop. Hey, Willie Williams! Who had been brought in from Philadelphia after the Rodney King riots to head the LAPD in 1992. Now the biggest association of black police wanted an honors funeral for a crub cop who had started a gunfight on an LA street and been killed. When you log-line me... It sounds a little crazy. You put it all in one sentence. It sounds very loaded and crazy. We wanted a cop funeral for this cop who was not a cop anymore and tried to murder cops. Williams didn't have a choice. The old LAPD guard didn't like Williams and he needed the black cops on his side. So Gaines received a semi-official police funeral attended by both Williams and deputy chief Bernard Parks. Wow. That's fucking crazy. Isn't that? Yeah. Johnny Cochran Jr. Oh, there it is. Filed a $25 million claim against the city for Gaines family, charging that Liga was quote an aggressive and dangerous police officer who had failed to summon immediate medical assistance for Gaines contributing to his death and that he had quote, conspired to hide and distort the true facts concerning the incident. You I mean basically he's talking about the can I help you? Well, how are you buddy? Can I help you? Mind if I shoot your heart? Oh God, do you mind if I shoot your heart? That's gonna be the name of this movie. Do you mind if I shoot your heart? Mind if I shoot your heart? Can I help you? Liga was now getting stares directed his way from black cops. He was labeled as an out of control racist white cop with the history. There was talk of an official cover up and rumors that Gaines had been the victim of an LAPD hit. Am I crazy to think that that's crazy? Well, so all the LA all the cops know is that a white cop shot a black cop on the street. Right. Okay. They don't know that he was right. This fucking criminal. Okay. No one had any idea on the force. So what we'd call Liga's situation best case scenario. Yes, exactly. Right. Okay. After the shooting was reviewed by a shooting board and Liga was questioned in December, Bernard Parks, who had succeeded Williams as police chief, reported that the shooting was within department policy. No action would be taken against him. The DA also eventually ruled that Liga acted lawfully in self defense. So there you go. Right. But the member of the black cops all think it's a cover up. But even okay. Oh boy. The city and Cochran agreed to a settlement. Cochran had reduced his request from $25 million to a sandwich and a nice coffee to 800,000. Wow. That is a serious. That's mad negotiated skills. What happened was the fucking LAPD brought in a folder. Why don't you read this? Yeah. And he was like, well, they still deserve a little something. He then dropped it down to $250,000 in the city. Except I you have to love that negotiate. 25 million here. Can you look at this? 800,000. Look at this. 250. Okay. Fine. Whatever. Three meal. Three meal. Oh, look, you give me 250,000 or I'm going to tell you that you got a crop crop. You got a crop crop on the force. What you're going to give me 250,000 or else you're going to tell the public that the guy you represent is was corrupt. Oh, you really are Johnny Cochran, aren't you? A bitter Ligo returned to undercover work in June of 1997. He did so harboring a measure of bitterness. Quote, that's the political environment in the city of Los Angeles, he said. On the morning of November 6, 1997, two black men robbed a Bank of America branch near the near USC dressed in suits and ties with sunglasses and braids. They walked out with more than $700,000 in two bags, got into a white van that had been stolen and drove off. Investor's immediately suspected the bank manager, Erlyn Romero, was involved because she had ordered more cash than was necessary to be delivered on that day. Hey, so Thursday we're going to need a lot of cash. You know how we get 300,000? Let's double it. We're going to go. Just got a good feeling. I got a good feeling we're going to be going through a lot of money on Thursday. Got a good feeling there's going to be a lot of withdrawals. People are so fucking stupid. Yeah. You can't. I mean, no, that's like with the last one we were talking about. Like what just you just made 3 million fucking dot like right enough's enough walk away. Walk you know walk away. She quickly confessed. She wouldn't say who was involved but pulled a business card with an LAPD shield out of her purse. It was her boyfriend's officer David Mack. That's Gaines old partner. Oh shit. He also did security for Shug Knight. He was there on biggie smallest was Mack had grown up in the same cop the neighborhood as Shug Knight. He joined the LAPD in 1988. He was married, had two kids and by all accounts was a good cop. Also had a girlfriend though. You really hit me with a lot here fast. But don't they vet cops? I guess not. I mean, like the smallest amount of vetting you'd be like Shug Knight, that's a red flag, probably not a cop. So investigators discovered discovered that he was a club crawler, a gambler and a womanizer. When Mack was arrested in December 1997, he refused to cooperate with police. He didn't tell them who his accomplices were or what had happened to the money. During their investigation, detectives discovered that on the force, Mack had kept to a tight circle of friends. They also discovered that two days after the bank robbery, two of those friends had accompanied Mack to a weekend blowout in Las Vegas and that one of them was Mack's ex-partner from an narcotics beat, a former Marine named Raphael Perez. Three months after David Mack's arrest on March 2, 1998, a sec, six and a half pounds of cocaine were checked out of the property room at the LAPD headquarters downtown. And not returned. How do you just check? How do you go and take six and a half pounds of coke even out of there? Hey Ernie, I'm gonna need six and a half pounds of cocaine. Oh, wait a minute, for what? I'm gonna take it to the trial. Here you go. Thank you. Bye. I'm gonna sign someone else's name, okay? Hey, thanks for coming. My name's Jerry this time. Bye, Jerry. Six and a half pounds of cocaine. Is that much cocaine that is? Dave, I'll tell you what, I don't and I know what a lot of cocaine looks like and it's six and a half pounds. Yeah. The coke. A pound, imagine one pound of coke. Yeah. Now multiply that by six and a half. All right, keep going. The coke had been booked into evidence by Frank Leiga. Oh, Jesus Christ. Who's a cop? Is anyone a cop? It had been stored in a case until it was needed as an exhibit at trial, but there was no trial and so no reason for the evidence to have been checked out. Yep, so sell it. It had been checked out under the name Joel Perez. Smart. And there was an officer with that name on the force, but an investigator determined that his signature was forged. I mean imagine like when they had to go talk to Joel Perez. Hey Joel. Hey. We just... Uh huh. Are you an idiot? Did you take six and a half pounds of coke and sign your own name? Oh, no, I don't think so. Yeah, we didn't think so. Okay. Okay, so that's it? That's it. Okay. All right. Because I wouldn't sign my own name. That's what we're saying. We would be crazy. We're cops and we're not good cops, but we know that. Okay, so I didn't take the coke. I'm starting to think you did, motherfucker. Okay. A clerk at the property remembered that Rafael Perez had once checked out a large amount of cocaine. He fucking signed a different Perez name. Yeah. And he's the stupidest. Who just takes six and a half pounds? Who thinks they're going to get away with it? You just can't possibly think. I mean, unless you're living in a completely corrupt world, you cannot think that you can take six and a half pounds of coke out. Investigators started looking at Rafael Perez. Perez was a good friend of David Mack and both were good friends with Kevin Gaines. So cool. So this is a cool little click we have. We have kind of a cool cop click. The pros. Yeah. Chief Parks ordered the formation of an investigative task force to solve the cocaine theft and to see if it was connected to the bank robbery or any other criminal activity. Perez was an ex-marine to join the force in 1989. He was assigned to a special narcotics unit where he teamed up with David Mack. Perez and Mack were on a buying bus team, which meant they traveled undercover throughout the city buying dope on the streets, working with narcotics squads in different divisions to make arrests. In 1995, Perez was transferred to crash. He got a recommendation. He got in on a recommendation from Mack's former partner. Gaines. So investigators were surprised to find that Perez sometimes made more than a hundred phone calls a day. Voice. I mean. Oh boy. What about getting a different phone? Like what about not using your phone? What about trying? Just trying. Trying to be a cop? No, trying to get away with it. Just like put in like, look, that's why like whenever you watch like those forensic file shows or anything just like, look dude, you fucking murdered someone in your house and tried to scrub your carpets. That's probably not going to work. What about taking cocaine before you checked it into evidence? Yeah. I'm sure they must be getting cocaine all over the city because they're all over the place making these drug busts. Yeah. They would take some of that cocaine. Or don't sign it out. Don't deal. I'm sure you can get in the fucking evidence room and be like, yeah, nothing in there. I don't know. Just like trying to enclose it urban outfitting. Yeah, you're really, you're really making some assumptions about the LA police department. I don't know what to think. I don't know what the inside of this department right now would actually look like. One of the hundred calls Perez made was to a nightclub singer with a long drug record. The detectives visited her, they found drug paraphernalia, a razor mark table and chemicals for converting powder cocaine into rock. That's a great chemical to have on hand. Just on your table. Yeah, just there. Oh that, that's just my magic crack powder. As they were interviewing her, her brother Carlos Romero, who is the subject of two outstanding felony arrest warrants for drug dealing, walked in. Hey man, what are you guys doing? Hey. Hey, I'm here for my arrest. Hello. Hey, it's me Carlos. Hey. What do we leave all the cocaine stuff on the table? Awkward. In a drawer in the apartment, Detective Mike Hohan noticed a startling photograph. Sitting on top of everything is a picture of Rafael Perez in what we call a 211 suit. In the California Penal Code, 211 is the section for robbery, a crime that a lot of the time was committed by people in nylon running suits. I don't understand the nylon running suit thing, but it's every, that's, that's apparently the, the close of choice for, for robbing criminals. I like it. You want to be able to, you should get, you should be able to get some sort of tie in. But what? Nike. Hey man, we're sponsored by Nike. Yeah, we probably. Good news boys. We got Adidas. Imagine, there's a shitty gang, it's a fucking Reebok. Fuck. Fuck man, we got kids. Fucking kids. What the fuck man? Kay Swiss, tell them to go fuck themselves. Kay Swiss, we ain't no fucking gang, we're bitches. So in the photo, Perez was throwing gang signs. Why? What the fuck? Just a little, a little, a little effort. Look, nobody's saying you can't have that picture. Hey man, I'm a cop. Can you get this on, can you get this on film? Oh yeah, definitely feature this on your mantle too. That's smart. That's where I see this being. Detectives can now connect Perez to both ends of the cocaine theft. More cocaine was missing from the property room. Hmm. It had also been seized by Frank Leiga. The detective, so, ho-han, I love this guy's name is ho-han. Yeah, ho-han is great. Detective ho-han had an idea. What if Perez had been stealing cocaine by checking it out of the evidence locker and replacing it with another substance and then returning the package? They had one package of cocaine analyzed. The department found Bisquick. Mmm. How do you not notice, how do you not notice the difference between cocaine and Bisquick? Well, I think we've proven that there's a lot of gaps in this department. Holy shit man, this cocaine makes great pancakes. Is it just me or are the gang members cooking more and more pancakes? What is happening? It's crazy. I can't believe we jailed the man for Bisquick. They continue checking for more proof to contain Bisquick. Handwriting analysis show that some of the swap evidence had been ordered by a Rafael Perez. Shocking. Perez was charged. His lawyer asked for a deal. He would confess to, ready? Yeah. The shooting of an unarmed suspect and planting a gun on him. What? I know that just like, that's just like, hey man, we got you for free. For cocaine. All right. I killed a guy. I shot a guy. I know we said cocaine. I killed a guy. I killed a family. I shot a guy. I killed a family. You Jay walked. I murdered a boy. I murdered a boy. I murdered a boy. Yeah, I said a good boy. I murdered a boy. I struck a little boy in my bare hands. Okay. I got an immunity on that charge and a five reduced five year term on the drug charges in exchange for exposing the bad cops and rampart division. So he gets caught. And he's cool. He's immediately like, okay. I'll tell everything. Oh yeah. First things first. I shot a guy and I put a gun on him and then I want, I want to get off five years for all the drugs and then I'll just give everybody. I get, I almost get everything except the shooting the guy confession. Yeah. No, it doesn't. You don't need that. Well, but we've already, we've already realized this guy's an idiot. He's an idiot, but I think a lawyer would be like, you're an idiot. Let me be a lawyer. He's steady. He's like, I'll tell you what, I love the plan. Let's go to him right now. Here's the deal. I did something really bad. You don't know about. I want you to give immunity on that and then I'll take a cop on the thing that I did do. Why didn't you just not tell us about, did you see the shield at all? A little bit. Yeah. You know, this is the last episode. No. This is basically the last episode of the shield where he goes in and he says he wants immunity and then he just lists all of his crimes and he turns in everybody. Jesus. A week later, David Mack would be sentenced to 14 years in prison. He was being investigated in connection with the 1997 killing of notorious B.I.G. Now, well, Mack didn't give up anyone and was perfectly happy to serve out his term 14 years in a federal prison. When Mack was in prison, he started using a red toothbrush. Then he started wearing a pair of red socks. I see where we're headed. Soon he was endured. It is much red as he could possibly obtain David Mack, a line himself with the bloods. Cool. I mean, it's bound to fucking happen. Chief Park says it appears he has completely divested himself of all relationships in his life as a police officer and he is basically a gang member. He has taken on the role of being a gang member in jail. Jesus Christ. Signed the police. We're smart. Smart detective. One of us. Yeah. How do you let that, I mean, really though, like it is fucking nuts for a play, like for a department to be able to give people guns to go and enforce laws and they have, and they, the second they go to jail, they will become bloods. No, it's insane. Like you don't even want the seeds of that possibility in somebody who, I'm a blood now. Yeah. I'm not that anymore. I'm on your side. He never was. He never was a cop. No, he was never a cop. So he was always like a fucking blood. He just like eventually went to jail and was like, cool, I can wear what I want now. Yeah, he was almost like a lekin, like in the departed. He was almost like the Matt Damon character who just was always a bad guy. Just looking. Yeah. Yeah. President started to unload on Rampart. He said that during his first drug bust with crash, he and his partner, Nino Dyrden had taken money from a drug dealer. Prez also described the 1996 confrontation with a 19 year old gang member who'd surprised Prez and Dyrden during a stakeout. They shot the man, Javier Francisco Avando in the head and chest before they realized he didn't have a gun. So they put down a drop gun they carried with them and they were a drop gun. They carry it with them. They all apparently have them. It's real. All the Rampart guys had a disgusting. They reported that Avando burst into their stakeout to kill them. Prez. Yeah, they just randomly kicked in the. He hated observing motherfucking cops. Oh man. Yeah. Oh mother, you motherfuckers hiding where I'd know when knew you were. I see you eating takeout and having mustaches. I know the deal. I've been fucking walking around all these apartments kicking in doors hoping to find a stakeout. You know what else I saw the movie stakeout is not that good. Not good. Real bad. Don't watch the second one. Back back. Prez said that he had he had the practice of keeping a drop gun for framing suspects and it was quite common in crash. That's terrible. When they found a gang member that they want to go to prison or they want to go to jail, they would plant one of these guns on them. They would do similar things with crack. They would use it to give due informants. They would also use it to plant on people they couldn't create a case against any other way. A Vondo survived the shooting. He said he didn't have a gun. He was charged with felony assault due to being partially paralyzed from the shooting. A Voldo watched from his wheelchair as press took the stand and testified against him. The judge rebuked a Vondo for lacking remorse and sentenced him to 23 years in prison. He didn't have any remorse because he didn't do anything. He didn't do. He just walked in a door. Oh wait. This I'm sorry. I'm getting them confused. The guy just walked in a door and he got shot so then he goes on trial and then the judge was like you're acting like you didn't shoot anybody. I'm going to give you a big sentence. Holy shit. The reason is it's because he didn't shoot anybody. Yeah because he couldn't. Yeah because he looked like he was being insubordinate because he was completely innocent. So if you're ever innocent and you go on trial you get a worse sentence because you're acting like you didn't do it. That's some fucking buzz. If you're found guilty and you're innocent you have to go I'm so sorry I did this. I'm a bad guy to hope to try and get a plea. That's a legal system. But then when you go to your probation hearing then they you can't still say you're innocent. You can never say you're innocent until you're out. No. That's so. No then they hold it against you at your probation because they go well you copped to it. You're like right. Yeah I copped to it because right I copped to it. Good talk. Good system. Thanks. So he said false police reports were the rule he claimed 90% of officers in crash falsify information. The interviews with prez went on for more than a year and filled 4500 pages of transcript. Wow. Wow. 500. The more he talked to big ol the bigger the circle of incriminated officers became those who weren't involved tolerated the wrongdoing. But prez said nothing about David Mack. He said the fact they were both in legal trouble was just a coincidence. Right. Yeah. Just one of those weird little weird things. Wink-a-dinks. I took a lot of cocaine and I shot a guy and he robbed a bank but we. You'd think we would have linked up. You think we would have looked up because we were buddies. But we were never. But we never said a word to each other. We never do. I'm not going to tell my bro Dave. I'm going to tell him. No way. Nino Dyrton a former partner of Rafael Perez confirmed they had shot and planted a gun on a Vondo. He sent he was sentenced to a seven year eight month prison sentence. Okay. But what about a Vondo? Well Vondo is in jail for 22. So that's done. Yeah. He's in jail. The guy even if there is an under the guy got initially shot was in jail for 22 years. But even when they confessed that they fucked he'll get up. He was released in April 2005. Diego Garcetti was hoping some of the implicated officers would turn. But none did. Instead cops fought the charges in police board of right hearings. Shockingly most of the hearings found in favor of the officers. Suddenly the official official story started to change. Now was that Perez was a liar. Just one rogue cop in a city full of cops trying to take everyone down. Jesus. In view of the lead investigator detective Brian Tindall quote he's a convict he's a perjurer he's a dope dealer so we don't believe a word he says. That's horrible. Horrible. No. Javier Avando was released from prison on September 5th 1999. His lawyer sued the city of Los Angeles for $15 million. Good. In February 2000 Rafael Perez was sentenced for stealing eight pounds of cocaine from a police evidence room under the plea bargain he worked out with prosecutors. He received five years in prison. He was a given immunity for all the other crimes he admitted to investigators. Crash was slowly shut down replaced by other gang units. In September 2000 officer Richard pool filed a lawsuit against the city. Remember Richard pool is the first guy started the investigation of the shooting. He claimed that chief Bernard Parks and other LAPD officials thwarted his efforts to investigate widespread corruption of the Rampart division. Russell pool who resigned after 19 years with the department said he was subjected to harassment and ostracism after he drafted and sent a 40 page report to Parks describing the dimensions of the problem at Rampart. Pool said he told Parks and other department officials quote it was more than just a case this goes a lot deeper than that you've got a group of vigilante cops at Rampart. He supervised or ordered ordered him to surrender all copies of the computer disk. On which he was written pools 40 page report report was chopped down to two pages and submitted as the official report under the names of two other officers. Pool refused an order to sign it. Because of his refusal he was ostracized and sent back to robbery homicide division where he was given a desk job. He resigned from the department in October 1999. Wow. What? That's awful. It's good. It's just like it just you just no wonder it's all just such a fuck I mean it's just such a fucking disaster. Yeah. And we're never going to fucking untangle it. No. Because of this shit nearly 40 officers received some sort of discipline arising out of the Rampart corruption investigation. Five were fired nine others resigned eight were found not guilty at disciplinary hearings. Three were made fall guys. Officers Ortiz Lydian Buchanan were found guilty in November 2000 of conspiring to obstruct justice. The charges stem from a 1996 arrest of two gang members who claimed the officers fabricated assault charges against them. That that's it. What. Yeah man they fucking took down three guys. What's the problem. I mean but that is all that they get. They took down three cops. What's the problem. This and this. Huh. There's no doubt that there's still cops there. Hold on in December 2000 the guilty verdicts of Ortiz Lydian Buchanan were overturned because of what jury misconduct what's a cute or almost conduct and a computer mistake printed on a police report. A computer mistake. What I mean what what do they mean. What does that even mean. I assume that someone went in and changed some shit so it looked like they were guilty. But that's that's called tampering with evidence. That's not a computer mistake in the official police computer. So where's the closure coming from Dave. The feds got involved. All right. Is this where the fucking lawyer after lengthy negotiations the city of Los Angeles and the US Department of Justice agreed to enter in a consent decree on November 3 2000 which allows for federal oversight of the LAPD reform process for a period of five years. Okay. In exchange the Justice Department which I've been investigating the LAPD since 1996 for excessive force violations agreed not to pursue a threatened lawsuit against the city. They accused the LAPD of engaging in quote a pattern or practice of excessive force false arrests unreasonable searches and seizures in violation of the fourth and fifteenth amendments to the Constitution. Okay. How do you feel about your city. Really good. In January 2001 an ex LAPD police officer David Mack was attacked in prison while he was jogging. Several prisoners attacked Mack after they saw a television program and read a magazine and newspaper accounts that detailed Mack's role as a law enforcement officer. So they didn't know when he went to jail and turned himself into a blood. Oh my God and then they found out and beat the shit out of him. Nobody wins. Mack was hospitalized with multiple stab wounds for a couple of days and then sent back to the prison's general population. Eventually he was released. Cool that must be I mean I can't even imagine the paradigm like what you must be going through when you're like I think I saw a magazine that mentioned me and some of the. How do you think you're going to get away with hiding the fact that you were a cop. He got away with it for a while though. You fucking robbed a bank as a cop. People are going to hear about it. And why would I mean would I get that you're but wouldn't you be like hey you're a fucking awesome gang member not a fucking cop. You'd be like you're fucking you're a group. You became a cop to keep gang activity going. Yeah. You stab me motherfucker. Take the face. In November 2001 Los Angeles District Attorney Steve Cooley closed the investigation on the rampart scandal without bringing charges against any more officers. Cooley later amplified on his remarks during an interview quote is it closing the book. Yeah. With every book when it's read you close it. Cool. So that's just so that's that's just a straight up dick. Not only stick that's so it's not even. Hey you heard of a you heard of a cliche. Yeah. Okay so cliche the cliche. You know what I'm saying. That's what he should have said. You know we cliche to cliche. Okay. Assistant public defender Robert Cullanian said quote I'm somewhat surprised that they feel fully investigated. That's why you're an assistant. In November 2001 police chief Bernard Park said on a local radio show quote the biggest scandal in history came from the two reporters who started the story in the LA Times. They tried for two years to play this up and determine that this was a scandal that was being swept under the carpet. They also made allegations that it was worldwide and spread throughout the city and none of that came through. They clearly jingled this thing up. So they blame in the LA Times. Yeah. Two reporters. It's clearly the two reporters tried to make a story out of nothing. And there was nothing at all bullshit. Oh by the way for the record between a hundred and a hundred and fifty convictions were overturned because police officers planted evidence or falsified reports. But it was the LA Times who did all the you know what I'm saying. Hey they were they were at the scenes of these crimes. A total of seven hundred million dollars is sorry a total of seventy million dollars was paid out in lawsuits relating to the rampart scandal. The average payout was four hundred thousand dollars. Wow. Most payouts went to gang members. Jesus. The KPD had exonerated some or all of the officers involved before the city attorney decided to settle. This is the worst. Look there is no good. Look nobody did anything wrong. But here's four hundred grand. Hey so it turns out what Crash ended up doing was giving money to gang members to keep pursuing gang philosophy. Hey how can we get how can we make gang members really rich. You know maybe we just fuck with them for a few years. And then perfect. And then just give big big big property. Big checks. Yeah. Hey man you want to mention. Yeah. Oh my god. But no but so just. You are I've it's like I poked you with a bigger balloon. This one's very deflating. Parks the media tried to make this the crime of the century. They began to talk about this is the worst corruption history in the scandal in the history of the LAPD. When it's all resolved will have one tenth of one percent of our officers involved in this issue. Because you fucking. White sheeted. Yeah. Yeah. In the air two thousand and three. New chief William Bratton said the LAPD couldn't set up a civilian panel to investigate the department's handling of the rampart scandal. Because they can't find the money to fund it. Right. This gets better. I'm sure it does Dave civil rights attorney Connie Rice had acquired an office space and hired investigators but was not provided any funds to get the investigation up and running. Cool. The LAPD could not get any money from the LACD council where former LAPD chief Bernard Parks was the mother fucker was the chairman of the council's budget and finance committee. It just. So it just. It's so cruel. It just never goes right. That motherfucker the most corrupt police. How do you. Now he's on the city council and how do you not like. How does somebody not go like yeah but he's full fucking shit. I mean he's clearly full of shit. This is bullshit. And everyone's like sorry he's in charge. He's sorry he's running. Sorry. We decided to give him a better job. And that's what happens with politics too. All the time is it's just like people leave politics to go run huge corporations where their political associations don't investigate the corruption. You know as I recall he was I believe he was fired from the LAPD because of the rampart stuff and then he's then but then what happened was he was the he was one of the two black cops who came in after that after the L.A. right. So in the black community he was sort of like a heroic figure right because they're the first two black cops had ever been. Yeah. Look I mean and so when he got fired they felt like well that's bullshit. He's being scapegoated and then they put him on the city council. Oh good. L.A. has no race problems. Good. No none. In in April 2007 the family of slain rap star notorious B.I.G. followed a lot of filed a lawsuit alleging that the Los Angeles police officers closely connected to the rampart corruption scandal were involved in his 1997 killing. The suit alleged that former officers Rafael Perez and Nito Dyrton were involved in the shooting and that Perez conspired with David Mack to kill the rapper. The suit contends that Perez has made specific statements that he together with David Mack conspired to murder and participated in the murder of Christopher Wallace. The suit was dropped in 2010. That I have no idea. What why they would drop it. Yeah. Right. Yeah real weird because his mom was like a huge yeah part of that. Yeah. Yeah. July 1st 2008. Javier Avando who won a 15 million judgment who's a fucking millionaire now who won a 50 million judgment after being shot and framed by Perez was arrested after leading Glendale police on a high speed chase of up to 90 miles per hour for an hour. It was his second arrest of the week. He was arrested previously for making criminal threats against a couple who are buying his 6,000 square foot Topanga Canyon mansion. Do you do you realize what you've just done. What there was like one redeeming part and it was that this guy got 15 million dollars from these fucks. There's still one good there's still one good person in the story. Well okay. Frank Ligon. Yeah. Okay. He's still the great cop. What they do anything wrong. Yeah. I don't know what great cops are now is people who didn't do anything wrong. I mean he shot a bad guy. He did. But he's also he's life got probably semi ruined by this. In November 15th 2013. You son of a bitch. I just walked right into your fucking honey trap tonight. Detective Frank Lagas spoke to fellow officers at the Los Angeles police academy. Someone recorded his speech on their phone. Regarding LAPD 77th district captain Lillian L. Caronza who was the department's internal affairs group. Lead following the 1997 shooting of Kevin Gaines. Like it describes Caronza as quote very cute little Hispanic lady who couldn't find her ass with both of her hands. 16 years ago she was really beautiful. I heard she's been swapped around a bunch of times. A voice in the audience says that's her Caronza and everyone laughs. Liga spoke of Sergeant Derwin Henderson once a partner of officer Kevin Gaines quote he thinks he's a ghetto boxer. He wore fucking a ripped shirt and hooded stuff. He was like a ghetto kid. Liga then went on to say Henderson was once a trainee of his and that after the shooting Henderson freelance his own investigation and was reprimanded for it. Liga quote Henderson and his buddy Kevin Gaines were best friends. They were running partners. That's how Gaines knew who I was basically. Henderson was a trainee of mine and I had seen them one night in Hollywood and I remember I had long hair driving a fucking Buick Regal and I seen Henderson in traffic and we stopped nose face. I was going south. He was going north. He had another black male in the car with him but I didn't pay attention to that guy. I was talking to Derwin. We were partners and I was saying hi to him and talking to him. Turns out Gaines was with them. They were running partners. That's how Gaines knew me. But after I shot him Henderson about 30 people went out to the scene in North Hollywood and canvassed the area looking for witnesses. I regret Gaines was alone in the truck at the time. Figured that one out. Alone in the truck at the time I could have killed a whole truckload of them. Before the end of the lecture, like a drop names he says he works out at the same gym as Dwayne The Rock Johnson. The movie Crash that won the Oscar I was depicted in a bad light in that movie. The director Paul Haggess invited me to the party afterwards. Finally he told his fellow officers quote if I offended you in any way I apologize. I drive a white Jeep Cherokee with no front plate usually 100 miles an hour in the car pool laid there was a sound of laughter on October 22 2014 Frank Lager was terminated by the Los Angeles police department. For his comments they have never moved that fast likeers lawyer said normally the chief allows some time to allow the defendant to do a written appeal that wasn't afforded to like a. He just he just showed up to fucking roast for a little while. Yeah. He lost his job. How you feel good. I feel good. How you good. I told you that might be the least funny when we did. It's not. I don't even know if I don't think it's funny. It's it's fucking crazy. They're all out there. That's fucking nuts. They're all still out there. Every single fucking one of those cops doing dirty shit planning fucking shit on people. How the fuck. And they all got away with it. Drop guns. Drop guns. They're fucking five miles away from us. Oh yeah. They probably pulled me over doing the same shit. And they come up. I'll tell you it. It's gotta just you can't empathize enough with being not white. Oh my God. Because you you just don't like I if I drive by a cop I get fucking nervous. I can't imagine being black and getting pulled over in this fucking city. Yeah. In any city but in this city is after hearing that. No it's horrifying. They'll fucking do whatever the fuck they want that if you're like if you're in a gang it's not against the law it might be against their gang. Yeah. Right. Cool. Well cool Dave. What do you want to do Waffles. That's the end of LAPD month. Sorry I didn't hit a bummer. Jesus. What are you gonna do. I'm gonna not leave my house. Get a smoke detector. Perfect.