 Hello! You listening to the Dallup, I am Dave Anthony. Each week I read a story from American history to my friend... Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about. Gary! Gareth. Oh my god, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling podcasts. You are queen fakie of made up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I see you've done, my friend. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Okay, I forgot a little bit about... A condition commonly known as Lobster Claw Syndrome. Oh, shit, we're about to hear about a lobster family. Most people who don't have that disease but are around people who have that disease have a- they don't eat lobster anymore. What? Yeah, they stop eating lobster because- Is that true? I would imagine this because if you've ever seen this, I don't see how you could not pull out lobster meat of a claw and be like, hey, that looks like Darryl. Hey, Jeff. That's Darryl's hand. Yum. The split often gives the hands the appearance of lobster claws, but cases do vary in severity. The condition usually occurs in both the hands and feet. While it is inherited- More goodness. Yeah, right. While it is inherited, it can skip a generation. Oh, Jesus. So you don't have it, but your kids are lobster people. Oh, God. It's good. If you have the lobster- I'm going to go ahead. William Stiles is the first in the family who was known to display the condition in 1805. He was followed by Jacob Stiles, Alicia Stiles, and Grady Franklin Stiles Sr. Grady Franklin Stiles Sr. worked as a sideshow attraction. He was billed as Lobster Man. I do- I will say- Yes. It was horrible as it is. Freak show time must have been a little fun. It's so object- objectifies people and it sounds like a terrible life, but- Yeah. There's a part of you that- You're like, oh, this is- If I saw a guy covered in targo and oof-dee-goof-dee, I'd be like, okay, I'm going to take this tour a little bit further. I'd pay for that. In the 1930s, Carnival Goers would pay a nickel to step into his tent and see his performance. Grady Sr. and his wife, Edna- What was his performance? I don't know, but from what I read, he just gave a speech. He'd just hop in a pot and like- He'd just be like, I am a lobster man! And then he would just talk about it. Let me tell you about the ocean floor. Grady Sr. and his wife, Edna, had three children. Two had lobster claw syndrome. One was Grady Franklin Styles Jr., born in Pittsburgh on July 18th, 1937. Grady had a severe case of lobster claw syndrome. Both hands and claws- Sorry, both hands were claws and his legs were stunted at the knees. Oh, wow. And then the family moved to Gibsonton, Florida, where Grady Jr. was a boy. Definitely go to Florida. Now, known as Gibtown, it was a famous sideshow wintering town. Many Carnival and circus people would spend the off season in Gibtown. It was home to Priscilla the Monkey Girl, the anatomical wonder, and Simey's twin sisters who ran a fruit stand. Give me the list one more time. Priscilla the Monkey Girl. I mean, okay, right there, fantastic. The anatomical wonder. And that is a separate person. That's a separate person. So we don't even, I mean, we're just talking double genital, no genital. I hope it's, yeah, I hope it's just a giant junk. It was just a giant. Maybe just the lobster claw down there. And Simey's twin sisters who ran a fruit stand. Look, I'll tell you something. You need the fruit stand. No, I get strawberries every day. You need the fruit stand element. Got to. Because otherwise I'm in, but if they're hawking fruit, I'm loving. This is where bearded ladies, strippers, clowns, sword swallowers, magicians, and anyone else who spent time in carnivals lived. They preferred to be called carnies instead of physically challenged. At one time, it was the only post office. At one time, it was the only post office with a counter for dwarfs. I mean, I don't even, it's different time, different time. So were dwarfs just expected to not mail fucking packages? I don't know. Anywhere else in the US. Excuse me. Can you mail this? Well, they, you know, there was no, no one built stuff for people with disabilities. They can't get, nobody had a fucking box. They can stand up. Yeah, they probably did have a box. You can stand out of your chair if you're a dwarf, but not here, not in this town. Not this town. We spent money to lower the counter a little bit. I also love the clown in the circus freak world. Yeah. It's got to be nice to be the guy who can go home at night, put a little like lotion on your face, wash it off and be like, Hey, all right, I can go to a bar and be fine. As opposed to a bearded woman or someone who's just double genital. Double genital. Aside from the agreeable winter climate, Gibtown offered unique circus zoning laws that allowed residents to keep elephants and circus trailers on their front lawns. Hey, welcome to Florida. As you drove down Route 41, you had seen a, see a sign that read Giants Camp. That was because a giant man ran a combination trailer park restaurant in Bateshop. There's a lot there. There's a lot. Yeah. Yum. Uh-huh. I'm just going to go get a meal from a circus freak and buy some bait. You know what? I want to eat some eggs right next to all that bait. Al Tumani was an eight foot six inch tall man who once toured in the world's fair freak show. Wow. That's where he met his wife, Jeannie. Filled as the world's only living half girl. What? She was two and a half feet tall. She was born with the lower half of her body missing. Ugh. So. So you have an eight foot six inch man just plowing a torso on a wedding night? I assumed that she just had no legs. So she just had like a vagina down there. That'll do. He could just pick her up like an apple and fuck her. Yeah. I mean, he. If you would fuck an apple. I've, well, but. I would imagine that he could. Like it's kind of perfect because he could just pick her up and put him put her on his dick and she doesn't have any legs to get in the way and he could just walk around. I'm not going to lie. One of the first things I did think was sexually, it's probably pretty perfect. Because he's huge and she can. But yeah. When the sparks are flying around those two, you're like, if these two hook up, that's going to be fucking nuts. That's going to be crazy. Grady senior forced Grady junior to quit school and join the carnival. Oh my God. He was billed as lobs. What a horrible sentence. Now don't go to school. Come work at the carnival. Yeah, but how else is he going to make money? He's a lobster boy. I believe that a lobster boy could have. You think a lot. What's he's going to be an accountant? He might be a great. He might be great with fucking numbers. Dip his dip one of his claws into ink and then right. Like what's he going to be using? I'm not suggesting that he's using his finger as a feather in an ink well. But I think what if he's like what if he's a great poet? Well, what's he going to write with? Was he going to bang away on a typewriter? Like how's he? They, you know, they'll have some anatomically incorrect person jot down his thoughts. He was billed as lobster boy and together they were called the lobster family. Oh, joy. Greaty Jr's role was to just sit in a chair and smiled as spectators stared at him. But as sad as it sounds, Greaty Jr actually liked the carnival life and he loved Gibb town as it was called by locals. There he was not considered a freak. He could play with other kids. He learned to read and to write his own name and even out of fire a revolver. Oh, good. Get as long as gun plays an option. I don't know how he could hold a gun and shoot it. But you know, their claws. Still unable to one of the weirder things you'll ever see is lobster boy fire a gun. Yeah, I would pay for that. I would definitely pay for that unable to walk. He learned to use his hands and arms to move, which led to Greaty Jr having incredible upper body strength. Okay, so he's just jacked up top. His claws gave him a handshake that was described as excruciating. Jesus. Well, they're close. Yeah, he does have like, yeah, the claws. They're taken really, really smash people's hands. Jesus. They're shaking. Oh boy. The lobster boy's got a hell of a grip on him. Lobster boy, let go. That's why he could shoot the gun. He's got that grip. Sometimes he would slap people with his claw, knocking them to the ground and then he would butt them with his head. Okay, so here's for me where we're getting into a problematic area. Yeah, because now he's sort of acting more like a sea lion than a sea lion. Yeah, it's very sea lion behavior. Just smacking people and just ramming them? Well, he's a lobster boy. I think maybe school was the option to go with. Greaty Jr remained with the freak show through his through adulthood in 1959, a woman named Mary Teresa Hurzon joined the carnival. She was not disabled in any way. But she would fuck any of the freaks. She just ran away from home where her stepfather was making unwanted sexual advances. So I guess that's where people go to the carnival. You're like, what's better than having my stepdad try to fuck me? Oh, carnival. The carnival, yeah, with freaks. She was 18 and had a nice body. Lobster boy was attracted to her, but because he was a star of the carnival and she was a lowly ticket taker, he didn't make a move. So there's what an amazing world. What an amazing world. The normal girl with the good body, the man who's ramming people with his lobster claws can't talk to her because of status. He doesn't want to be taken down a notch by dating a normie. You're dating a ticket taker? No, I'm fucking a lion. Really the bearded lady is single, but I guess I have the ticket taker. I guess so. To each his own. I'm not seeing it personally. What if you fuck her and make a normal baby? You know that we have a woman here with a penis, so... There's a lady with a porpoise head. So there's options. She slowly advanced, working at first as a ballet girl. Ballet girls would stand in front of tents and ballet, who the shows inside so they would like get people to go in. Next she became a blade box girl standing in a box through which swords were thrust. Okay. She's moving up. Yeah, that's a definite increase. And later she became the electrified girl who sat in an electric chair and was seemingly electrified. Cool. That's when Grady began courting her. Well that's when he felt like, alright. Okay. I've heard about you a little bit now. What's up electric girl? I've had my eye on you since you was a belly hoover. Quote from Teresa. Grady was such a charming man, everyone enjoyed being in his company. They moved in together and lived together for nine years before Grady married her. Then Grady began drinking heavily. Saltwater, right? Yeah. That's normal for him. Those binges often ended in beatings of Teresa. Jesus Christ. Wait. Okay. Yeah. Now I think I've heard some of this, but this is news to me. Okay. So you would just get chip face and claw and claw the shit out of her. I'll tell you, if he had just gone to school for a little bit, maybe he would have learned. Yep. Or if he didn't have the anger from being put in a chair and people staring at him and gawking. Or be rewarded for smacking people with his claw and budding. Head budding. True. They had two children, both who died of pneumonia within a month of being bored. They had two more children who lived, one without lobster claw syndrome and one without with. Kathy was the girl with lobster claws. Grady continued his drinking beatings now going after the kids. Donna, the girl without the lobster claws received the worst of it. Oh, God. Yeah. They beat up the normal one. Yeah. One night. You're just like your ticket taken mother. With all your goddamn fingers. With all your goddamn fingers and toes. You fucking tenor. Quit rubbing your thumb in my face. One night, Grady threw Teresa and the kids out. She thought. She sought refuge with the world's smallest man. Oh, boy. Oh, boy. Oh, that's tasty right there. So also known as midget man. Oh, boy. Who was just over three feet tall. So what is the. Why don't you go to the fucking giant who's fucking a torso? He took the family to live with bearded lady. He took the family to live with his mother in Ohio. Four months later, word came that Grady had filed for divorce since Teresa did not know about the hearing. She was not represented in court. The judge therefore granted full custody of the children. To lobster boy. When they returned to Gabtown, they discovered Grady had remarried. Grady and his new wife had a child. Grady the third. He was also a lobster boy with truncated legs. We already know where Grady the third's life is headed. Yeah. He'll be sitting on a chair next to his dad. Of course. Yeah. Grady Junior then moved his family back to Pittsburgh. Donna met a boy named Jack Lane and the two fell in love. Donna started missing time from school. So one of his teachers made a home visit. Grady Junior swooped in quote from Grady Junior. This is going to be violent. This teacher, she really liked my claws. So we had sex right in the house and she kept coming back and back because of this. Everyone I had sex with wants to have sex with my claws. They love it when I use my claws. Oh my God. Getting finger banged my claws. Oh my no you're getting claw banged. Oh my God. Sorry. That is the kid. No that's that's the that's regular Grady. That's Grady. That's the dad. Kid still a boy. Okay. I didn't know if we time jumped but that's so vulgar and strange. But he can also he can he can he can double hole. That was just I saw it. I saw that. Yeah created and coming out of you. Yeah I'm sorry. Donna soon ran away from her abusive father and moved in with Jack's sister, her boyfriend's sister. Uh huh. Grady Junior demanded that she return and threatened to hire detectives. Donna called her father and told him she was pregnant and wanted to get married. But she wasn't pregnant. She returned home and Grady agreed to the marriage. A wedding date was set September 28th, 1978. The day before the wedding, Jack and Donna went to Zara's department store to buy her a wedding dress. Grady Junior went to a bar and drank 12 whiskeys. Oh boy. When Donna came home, she noticed Grady's wheelchair was missing so she went out to look for him. I know. Then she heard a bang come from the house and she ran back. Lobster boy had shot Jack in the chest with a shotgun. What the fuck. He died. When police arrived, Grady just said, take me, I'm ready. What? Yeah. He didn't want his daughter getting married. Lobster boy is terrible. I know he's terrible. What I remember is that Lobster boy drank a lot and was violent. Okay, well, you're getting that. Yeah. I didn't realize he was shooting people in the chest. Grady was charged with first degree murder. His deformity created a strong sympathy for him. At the trial, his character witnesses were a bearded lady, a carnival midget, and Paul Fishbaugh, aka the Fat Man. So I remember when I told you my jury duty story once, where I pretended to be racist to get thrown off of the jury. This is the trial you want to be on. This is the one where you're pitching why you get jury duty for this trial. This is a miracle. Because you already like, to be honest, the more morbid, the better when it comes to a trial, the idea that you get to see bearded... The state calls the bearded lady. World's tiniest man. Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth? Half lady, what do you say? And the giant who works with worms. The Fat Man weighed 600 pounds and could not fit in the witness chair. So he had to sit on the ground in front of the... On the ground was the other option? Where else was he going to sit? I don't get a fucking big chair. He couldn't fit in there. The chair only barely fits in there. I guess he could stand, but he's so fat. He might need to do a little more standing. But Lobster Boy was the best witness of all. Having been a showman his whole life, he gave the performance of his life. The jury only found him guilty of voluntary manslaughter. But jailing him proved to be a problem. Oh Christ. A state penitentiary official wrote to the judge to say they didn't want Lobster Boy in the prison system because they would have to put a guard on him all day long to care for him, and that wasn't possible. So Grady was given a sentence of 15 years probation. 15? Because he's a Lobster Boy. He's like magical. Yeah, yeah, I will say he's a real loopholer. Grady immediately left town to avoid paying his attorney and started... After all this. After murdering a man and getting away with it. I'm not going to pay for that shit. And he started his own sideshow with 10 acts. Grady then divorced his second wife and moved back to Gipptown. Meanwhile, Trisha had grown bored of her tiny husband and she divorced him. She then moved back in with the man who beat her repeatedly, Lobster Boy. In 1989 they remarried. If you're her parents, you've got to be like, well, we did not do a good job. She brought her son with her from her relationship with the smallest man. Her son's name was Glenn. He was six feet four inches tall and weighed 240 pounds. Oh, snap. And he had Down syndrome. Oh my god. What is... It's just... Is anything right? Oh my god. Grady Jr. appeared to have changed for the better. He was kinder and gentler. He kept his drinking at a minimum at first. Oh god. Then he started drinking more and more. And even more so when he went to the local Carney bar called Sideshow USA. The beating started again. Grady felt invincible when he resumed beating his family. One of his favorite taunts was, I killed before and got away with it. I can do it again. In 1992 Lobster Boy hit the road again. It was his 42nd year in show business. By this time, he had pushed most of his family into the business. His daughter Kathy and her husband ran the Animal Audities exhibition, which included a two-headed raccoon. Donna ran an illusion in which she turned into a gorilla. Glenn was there. He was called the human blockhead. Oh boy. And he drove nails up his nose. Oh my god. Oh my god. I mean, nobody is safe. This is an outbreak. Grady the third was there as the new Lobster Boy. Together he and his father were the Lobster family. For sure. This is 1992. For those of you wondering what was going on, Grunge was about to start. This seems like it should be the 30s. It's 1992. Nirvana is about to put out their album. The 1992 tour was full of family fights and squabbles. Teresa said she wanted Grady Jr. dead and Kathy agreed. In the fall, Teresa asked Glenn the human blockhead to find someone to kill Grady for $1,500. Glenn contacted Chris Wyant, a sideshow performer who was known to brag that he killed people and drive by shootings. More likeability. Always believe a carny when he says he killed people and drive by shootings. I love to drive by and shoot people. Well, you're probably our guy. When I'm not a clown. Your resume seems pretty tight. Chris agreed to do the deed. Chris then asked his friend Dennis Cowell to drive him somewhere. He took Dennis to a store and bought him a pair of black pants, Nike shoes, a black and white shirt and a Raiders cap. Dennis was thrilled. Chris then asked Dennis to drive him five miles away to buy a gun. He asked Dennis to fill out the paperwork for the gun, which Dennis did. What, are you getting a weird feeling? Yeah, very weird feeling that this guy is implicated in a drive by he doesn't know is happening under his watch. A couple days later, Teresa and Kathy ducked out of their mobile home and left Lobster Boy watching TV. Just after 11, Chris entered wearing black pants, Nike shoes, a black and white t-shirt and a Raiders cap. I mean, I hope he bought two. It's full proof. It's full proof. He just completely set up his friend. Yeah, it's amazing. Get the fuck out of my house. Get the fuck out of my house, you lobster boy right before he was shot in the head. Oh my God. The plan did not work though. Cops immediately suspected Teresa and Kathy because they had left the house right before Lobster Boy was shot. Hey, we're going outside to do what outside did not be implicated. Plus they showed absolutely zero emotion at the murder scene. They were like, oh yeah, he's dead. Oh, good. Damn. Oh, I feel bad. And he had so much beating left to do. And a big strike against the two was that Teresa had hired her summit down syndromes to find the killer. Probably hard to. So that was, I mean, let's be honest, that's probably pretty easy to crack. Hey, did you kill him? No. Did you hire somebody to kill him? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. She's got nails in his face. Nails. Just this one doesn't come out. Okay. We're good here. Blockhead. Teresa, Chris and Glenn went on trial separately. Chris was convicted and received a sentence of 27 years. Teresa tried a battered spouse defense, but it didn't fly because she hired a killer. You can't. Yeah. Look, he beat me up so much that I went on and hired someone to kill him. But I calculatedly murdered him. At the trial, her attorney played a horrible video of Grady Jr. putting Grady the third in a headlock and choking him. Grady the third testified he couldn't breathe and this kind of thing happened often. Suddenly the judge took ill and a new judge was brought in. The new judge asked the tape to be played with sound. Now it was a different story. On the tape, father and son could be heard giggling. Oh, dear. Jesus Christ. Is there volume on this? It's interesting you asked. There is. Oh, you are. Oh, no, no. It completely changes. We don't need volume. Damn it. The volume defense almost worked. Teresa was convicted and sentenced to 12 years in prison. Glenn, the human blockhead, was up for trial next. The day offered him the same sentence as his mom if he played guilty, Glenn's lawyer recommended he take the deal. Teresa, however, convinced him otherwise. She said to fight it. Glenn was convicted and sentenced to life in prison. Oh, Jesus Christ. Is there anybody who's not horrible? No, nobody. No. Grady Jr. was buried in international independent Shulman Garden of Memorials, the graveyard of Carnes. Oh, what? The family is carried on. Grady third has a daughter, Sarah, who does not have lobster claw syndrome. Kathy is married and has a lobster clawed daughter named Misty. The three of them still perform on occasion. Kathy has taken up acting and has appeared in the series Carnival and in Tim Burton's film Big Fish. Oh, Jesus Christ. So dark. It's super dark, right? So dark. I'm surprised it's never made into a movie. I can tell you why it has. Oh, shit. He should have stayed in school. There's a lot of women right now wondering. Oh, God. Not in a good way. What it's like to get banged by a claw claw banged. It might be great. It might be great. What if it's the best sex you ever had? Then don't have it. I mean, it's like hearing heroin is amazing. I'm not going to do it. Just, you know. Yeah. If you fall in love with a man based on his personality and he has lobster claws, by all means, but we don't. I think we've learned let's steer clear of this gene pool for a little while. I don't know. Not just because of the claws, but because of the violence. They might turn it around. I don't think they're going to. They might turn it around. I don't believe it. I'm telling you. You're not telling me. All right.