 Welcome to the DALT. This is a special episode this week. Each week I, Dave Anthony, read a story from American history to my friend, Gareth Reynolds. And he's never heard it before, but this week it's a little bit different because it's live. It's taped at Meltdown, the Nerdist Theater in Meltdown Comics in Los Angeles, California at the end of November, or the beginning of December. And we are joined by Patton Oswalt, who is a very funny gentleman you may have heard of. So please listen to this. It's a really long one. It's about two hours. Here's the episode with Patton and Gareth. Ladies and gentlemen and rubes of all ages, welcome to the live DALT but Meltdown. Here's your hosts, Dave Anthony and Gary Reynolds. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. Moog's silent. Colin McCoy, he wrote the theme song. Yep. You kinda did though. Moog's not for fun. Thank you. It's actually, it's Gareth. It's actually, it's Gareth. I appreciate it. I really, thank you guys. Again, it is actually, the name is Gareth. So just so we're, whatever, the same page. It's like we gotta get there. Cause I don't know where it's getting lost in translation. Feels like I've been really clear the whole time. So welcome to the DALT. This is a historical podcast and each week I read a story to my friend. Gareth Reynolds. Who has no idea what the topic is. But tonight I'll be reading my story to two gentlemen. One of them I like to refer to as the great American gas pack. Ladies and gentlemen, Patton Oswald. Yeah, girl. There you are, girl. Yeah. All right. Why do you get a mic stand in a, cause I'm the one, cause you just get to sit there like douchebags making comments and I do all the work. And then I fuck up words and people send me mean emails. Oh, the Thanksgiving one. I got an email from a Native American. You changed my name. Holy shit. I got an email from a Native American that was unbelievable. It was like I had brought smallpox over. Yeah, I get it. I fuck up a lot of names. I did a lot of drugs and I was younger and something got fucked up. I will fuck up words. I apologize. That's what happens. You probably mispronounced dirty engine. That was probably why you got a little mispronounced that. I bet. That was the one about car repair. I remember that one. It was the early 1800s. God damn it. Always good. Always good. Always good. Stop it. Stop. Hang on. Before you start, whenever something happens in the 60s or 70s, 1960s or 70s, those are fun. Anything happens in the early 1900s. They are important. Anything that happens in the 1800s on this podcast is the most depressing, depraved. If we start off in the end, go back all the episodes that take place in the 1800s, you want to take a shower in hand sanitizer. Imagine if there's a way. Here we go. It was the early 1800s. Fuck. Yeah, it was. In the Burned Over District of New York State. I'm sorry. Did you say Burned Over? Burned Over. Oh. The Burned Over. Wait, I'm sorry. That's it? That's the whole story. Oh, wow. That was really good. That's nice. The Burned Over District was the western and central regions of New York State in the early 19th century, where religious revivals and the formation of new religious movements of the second great awakening took place. Not good. Not good. Not good. Not good. New York stretches over a large distance from New York City. This is for the Australians. Here we go. Yeah. New York stretches over a large distance from New York City. Off on New York was just a dog stain. So we're talking about this, the part of the state that butts up against Lake Erie. It's over there on the west. It's a very large state. The term Burned Over District was coined by Charles Grandison Finney. He believed the area had been so heavily evangelized that it had no more fuel left over to burn. The fuel being the unconverted and the burn being the converted. Holy shit. That is not good. Yeah. And also can I say a nickname shouldn't involve a one paragraph asterisk to explain the nickname. There's my old friend, Tusheds. Now he got that name because he originally lived, dude, if it doesn't, if it's not evident, don't give that name. It actually is a 10-year tale about two crazy shats. Sit down. It's to shorten his name. Sit down. At this time, Western New York was still a frontier. This meant that professional and established clergy were scarce. Many of the people living there were self-taught and susceptible to folk religion. Well, there we go. Here we go. Strap in, kids. Here we go. There's the seed we watered tonight, gang. Also, that's another really dark thread throughout the dollop. Self-taught never ends well. Whatever Dave says, self-taught. Here we go. Innovative religions blossomed. Oh, boy. Not good again. Keep going, but terrible. Here we are. They were all founded by lay people who were coming up with new and exciting twists on Jesus. New and exciting twists on Jesus. He was made of rainbows. Have you heard of dolphin Jesus? Sit down. The Oneida group was located there. That's the cult. For those of you who didn't see the live one that we did at LA Potfest, it's up on YouTube. The Oneida group is part of that. That's the cult that young Charles Gattu who shot one of our precedents very sadly, and then he died over a period of months. That's how we all want to go. That's where the Oneida group was from. Now, William Miller was a prosperous farmer living in the Burndover district. In 1810, he left the Baptist religion and became a deist. No organized religion for him. Then he fought in the war of 1812, and when he came back, he read something in the Bible and was like, oh, shit, I'm going to be a Baptist again. No, boy. What was it he read, Dave? Nobody knows. Oh, okay. I thought, but it was handwritten. He just... The Bible's a crown. Look, Jesus said my name here. Bill Miller. Hey, Bill Miller. He's got those cartoon bubble talk things. Yeah. Speaking right to me. At this point, all of his deist friends started bugging him, making him justify his new change of faith. So William Miller began to look at the Bible very closely. Okay. And he also, having been educated, he knew math. Was it self-taught math? Yeah. Two plus twos. Whatever I want. By the way, knowing math in the early 1800s America, you're basically Gandalf. Like, right this way, sir. Right this way to the math table. Hey, dude, that guy, that Bill Miller guy, he took it number three, and then he took it number two, and then he was just fucking five. I don't know what... What the fuck? I swear to God. Get him! He's fucking five. I'm trying to have him bring my Stiltborn baby back to life. He made five out of a three or two. He's a wizard. William Miller came up with his own ideas about religion, and he based his belief on Daniel 814. Unto 2,300 days, then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. Boom. Yep. Naturally, he assumed the cleansing was a great fire when Christ returned. Then he used what he called day-year principle. This interpreted a day in prophecy to be a calendar year instead of the usual 24-hour period, as was commonly believed. So he stretched a day into a year. All shit. He's making up on the fly. Self-taught math. Self-taught math. It's math. That's not good, though. That is not good. What I've heard so far, not good. Then he decided that the 2,300 day period started in 457 BC when the king of Persia decided that Jerusalem should be rebuilt. It all makes sense. Sure. I feel like it's going to be approaching the day he lives in. It's simple math. I don't know where you get that. Well, it's self-taught. So if you use these simple calculations, you will come to the obvious conclusion that this period would end in 1843. That's not good. Not good. Not good. What didn't he have just worked out a blackjack system or something? So Jesus is returning. Oh, good. In 1843. Yeah. I remember reading about when he returned in 1843. Yeah. And it makes sense that Bill Miller would figure that out. And Jesus was bringing a great cleansing fire. Yeah. Yeah. No. Jesus will bring it. As we all know, Jesus will. Yeah. Not water for Jesus. When Jesus was ascending, he told his disciples, just check with Bill Miller. He'll let you know when I come back. Bill Miller, you know. Bill, yeah. Talk to Bill Miller. Water will be fire for the bath. There will be fire. That was Jesus's last words. There will be fire. Dad. So he wrote all this shit down in 1822. Makes it real. And then he hit it. Hit it. And then he tucked it away for the right time. Oh, boy. The right time might be. Go ahead. While Miller was waiting to unleash his Jesus on his genius on the world. Sorry. Both. Both. Yeah. Both. Yeah. Unleash your Jesus is a Katy Perry song. It's not. Please. Because my daughter sings at 18 fucking times a day. It was in Connecticut. There was an evangelical evangelical minister named Sylvester Graham. Sounds like a sweetie. Yeah. It was the 1830s. So the temperance movements were picking up steam. But while his fellow reform reformers were concerned with issues like alcohol and tobacco consumption, women's rights and slavery, Graham was concerned about sex and masturbation. We got to get these two crazy kids together. Pat, that's the first thing. Good news. You got they're going to meet. You got Bill Miller and my Sylvester Graham. You got Sylvester Graham and my Bill Miller. It's the end of the goddamn world. Let's masturbate. Right. Graham thought Americans recreational sex and masturbation were making Americans physically ill. Oh, yeah. So he took the anti-abuse. This was not a new idea. But Graham was the main man fighting against sex in America. The idea of sex and masturbation began being bad with Swiss physicists. Swiss physicists. Swiss physicists. Simon Tussaud in 1760. That was when he published Is that where you get general Tussaud's chicken? Yes. Okay. Is that what is that what this dollop is about? All right. I know this story. I'm going to leave. He published Le Onanamzee. Ready for the email. It's just a big no, I know some masturbators going to be like, Oh, I'm running with one hand. Which was a comprehensive medical document on the ill effects of masturbation to so argue that semen was an essential oil and stimulus that when lost from the body and great amounts would cause a perceptible reduction of strength, memory and even reason, blurred vision and all of the nervous disorders, all types of gout and rheumatism, weakening of the organs of generation, blood in the urine, disturbance of the appetite, headaches and a great number of other disorders. Wait, that really is like the side effects of C. Alice. Right. Also, by the way, excessive masturbation does not lose like nerve control. Let me help. Sorry, I wanted to, sorry. Wow. What the, these guys. I like that it also will be passed down for generations. You'll be like, yeah, my son can't breathe properly. Hope you came well. Did your mother take, did your mother take flaminamide? Flemish. I shouldn't even be, I shouldn't be allowed to say over two syllables. We gave these kids flaminamide. Oh, but if it's passed down and some guy like Smithers that's the eighth order you screwed up. Well, daddy was a master bait. I didn't know that. No, no, no, no, no. We'll give you extra time. I didn't know you were a papa master bait. Daddy was a master bait. I had no idea. What hardships. Literally. To those findings were treated as a scientific breakthrough. Luminaries like Kant and Voltaire and others published his findings, which led to masturbation being considered a debilitating illness. Voltaire published this shit? Yep. Oh, he was in on it. It became I like Voltaire. God damn it. And James Elroy. And well, that actually makes sense. It became a movement. Literally. Get it? You know the only way to stop a movement. And it became another famous book, which was anonymously published at the time, was Oninia or the heinous sin of self pollution and all its frightful consequences. So that looks good. That looks like a good book. Some to fall asleep with. Yeah. All right. Got my bedbook. So Sylvester Graham was just picking up with this idea and running with it. He made his name by giving popular speeches admonishing masturbation. Believing it. Believing it. Welcome to tonight's speech. Are you guys ready to hear about not masturbating? Yeah. I can't hear you. Sorry. Flash pot. Put your dick away. I would love love to see a non masturbation. Well, I'm out. You want this seat? He believed masturbation would inflame the brain more than natural arousal and therefore result in insanity. Back then, masturbation was referred to as self abuse. And many women were said to have fainted during his speeches about jerking off. He was like the Tom Jones. Yeah. Exactly. As I slowly stroke. I did not tickle my balls, ma'am. I want you to not want a masturbation. Lying at Buddha con. Welcome to no bait. Graham considered sex more than once a month to be pathological. This might also have been because he had 17 brothers and sister, meaning his parents never, ever stop fucking. No. I mean, literally never stop fucking. And in that time, everyone was like in the same room and houses and it was like, here, here, here. Oh, not another one. Shut up. I don't want to sin. Oh, Graham, I'm coming in your mommy. Get my sex rag. I'm done. Oh, Sylvester, get that sex rag in here. Wipe your mom off. By the way, this is my boy. Sex rag. How are you, son? Wipe daddy. Wipe daddy. Wipe daddy off. Graham encouraged people to take control of their health by repressing their carnal urges. Obviously, some people, obviously, people's sexual urges were stimulated by a diet of flavorful, fatty and meaty dishes. In Graham's view, the correlation between sex and health was simple. The more immoral the activity, the more bodily harm was done. Quote. Pimples are a livid cue. Come out upon the forehead and about the nose and sometimes over the whole face. And even ulcerous sores, in some cases, break out upon the head, breast, back and thighs, and these sometimes enlarge to permanent fistulas of a cantress character and continue, perhaps for years, to discharge great quantities of fetid locem pus and not infrequently terminate in death. No wonder the ladies fainted. I can't handle this. Swoon. Say fetid again. And that is from masturbating. Yes. Okay. And if you had sex too much. Okay. Too much sex. That's masturbating is the number one reason that you would get giant fetid sores. If you got to put it something, not your hands. Yeah. There's like this sweet spot you got to hit. That's what he's giving you basically. Yeah. He's saying you can fuck a lady once a month. Once a month. Any more than that. It's like cancer source. An orgasm advent calendar in a way. It really is. Yep. But it's yearly. And the last window you open, there's a little elf going, it's fuck day. Oh, thank God. I was gonna pop. Graham believed Americans could stop debilitating stimulation and fine salvation through clean living and healthy food. So he created a diet. The grand diet consisted of simply prepared bland foods with lots of whole grains, mostly fruits and vegetables, no spices, meat, alcohol or tobacco. Even pepper was banned. Have you ever had like pepper on something and then not been able to jerk off? Well, that's why the waiter asked to say when. He's like, how bad do you? Are you jerking off? Not yet. Not yet. Not yet. Not yet. Okay. Okay. A little more. I'm done. A little further. I'm done. Oh, you finished. Yeah. Yeah. Where's the white boy? Graham believed that adhering to the diet would prevent people from having impure thoughts and in turn would stop masturbation. Besides leading to insanity, he also thought it led to blindness. Well, that was a rumor that like translated to like high schoolish times, right? But they've been like, I don't think that's ever stopped. Yeah. Get Harry Palms go blind. Yeah. Harry. Yeah, you get hair on your palms. Yeah, you get hair on your palms. You go blind. Yeah. Never heard that? Whenever you go bald. Where did you go to school? Come on your head. I went to. Yeah, yeah. That is. Well, I went to a monkey high school. Oh, that's interesting. Everybody had hair on their palms. Oh, that's great. Yeah. So you're self taught. Yeah. The permitted fruits and vegetables were eaten to be eaten in small quantities, just two meals a day and chew them slowly with plenty of saliva. Otherwise, you'll want to ejaculate. You chew too fast. You'll be coming all night. My man. Yep. Grashed apple equals coming in your pants. Everyone knows that. If you want a poster that says that you could take one, they're free. Graham also advocated radical ideas for the time about health and hygiene, such as bathing regularly, taking in fresh air and sunlight, drinking clean water, wearing comfortable clothing and exercising daily. So that was all shit people didn't do. So we could just stop them from masturbating. These unwashed people in uncomfortable clothing, not breathing any air. They'll fucking will be a would be in the moon by 1850. Man comes on moon. We get these smelly farmer apes to stop jerking off. We have a maglev system. Thousands began to follow Graham's diet and they were given the name Grammites, spurred on by people concerned about a cholera epidemic that swept through New York in 1832. People testified about his diet's life changing effects from recovery of physical and mental ailments from nervous and despondency to a dizziness and severe headaches. So he was by having people eat better and breathe air and take a fucking bath. Oh, I don't feel like a fucking piece of shit. That's because you're bathing you animal. It's a real either or. I could bend my arm because there's no more dirt on it. That's right. But don't bend it for naughtiness. I took soap and I and I cleansed the possum babies out of my ass crack. And now I don't have dengue fever. It's weird. Don't you go masturbating and get dengue now. One of the reasons the diet took off and people felt better diet. The diet. The diet. No, you said diet, but it's shocking that this is called the diet. Yeah, that's common sense really. Yeah, basically. Yeah, it's because people ate like shit at the time. Complete shit. Meals were jam packed with grease and meat products. British astronomer Francis Bailey wrote in his diary that his landlord out of Virginia and served a breakfast of beef steaks, sausage, stewed veal, fried hams, eggs, coffee and tea. I will say have you seen the morning Taco Bell menu with a hash brown. I think we have it. I think I think that's actually something you can get at Denny's right now. The meat plate and eggs. Well, you know, that was that that was gluten free. Everything that you read. I'm just saying it's totally gluten free. His next diary entry noted simply I died. I just died. Whilst at the place we buried our landlord. Wait, what? He did die. The landlord died while he was there. He died. Because he was taking veal suppositories. Every morning. Good morning. That's tiny cow up my ass. Uh, things got much worse as you headed away from the east coast and into the frontier. It became all about pork. Slice chopped or torn from the bodies of hogs most often salted so that it would keep fried pork was served up in thick chunks for breakfast lunch at dinner. Pork wasn't just the other white meat. It was the only white meat and the only thing on the table for most Americans. One adventure sniffing the breeze to discover the essence of the brave new land came to the conclusion that everything tastes and smells of hogs grease. That's why that's why no Jewish gunfighters. Why would I move to Laredo screw this? I'm not doing it. Taking the York. I mean, they chicken, you know, some creplach. I can't get a good matzo ball out here in the frontier. I can't do tomorrow. I can't. I won't. I've had nothing to eat. There's nothing to eat. I won't do it. I won't. People therefore suffered incessantly from arteriosclerosis, heart disease and dyssepsia. Everyone back then was moaning and clutching at their stomachs. 19th century America. I mean imagine living in a world where you walk up morning. Ah, fuck. How's your wife? Oh, she's got the diarrhea. She does. That is my wife and me. I got meat cramps. Meat cramps, meat cramps. Four scorched. Oh, fuck. Seven. I'll take over, Mr. Oh, shit. It's so John Wilkes boots like Mr. Oh, fuck. Shit. And yet it's hilariously not far off from like Mississippi today. Oh, yeah, yeah. Mississippi. We bringing that back. We're the original hipsters, man. We started the grunt greeting. How are you? Oh, 19th century America suffered from one huge bloated gaseous painful enormous bellyache defined in the mid 17th century as difficulty of digestion or fermentation in the stomach or guts. Dyssepsia was the disease of the steel age. All classes in all ages suffer from its attacks noted the 1830 edition of a cyclopedia Americana. Dyssepsia was so much a part of the American lifestyle. One compiler cookbooks referred to it as Americanitis. Shut the fuck up. Why did that ever go anywhere? How have we not? How is there not a restaurant called Americanitis? How are you doing up from America? Oh, you know, you didn't have to tell me where you were from. I heard you farting off the plane. I could tell. What are you doing? Only pork? Yeah. I'm on the pork diet. I'm from America. I know. We know. Yeah. No, you're leaving a trail. And then you should just be like just one long fart and then a grown that should be that an all rise. Play ball. All right. Here we go. Oh, get your pork here. Fresh hot pork diapers. Americanitis diapers. A visit to a store was described like this. When one enters the door of bell rings, which calls which calls the attendant from the barn, the barn, because that's where the store guy is out in the barn. Just picking a big shit. He plunges his unwashed hands. A good start. There you go. To any statement. Yeah. Into the pork or pickle barrel. Cut what? Cut cheese or butter often drawing kerosene and molasses and wiping the overflow on his coach. What? The Maple Master Bay. Sweet. God. The Maple bottles, the Maple syrup bottles stand nearby and the keeper himself has been seen to take a swallow at them from different times when when he's tweet tooth called. Wait, what? He's like, you just take some big swig. You want to hit or you go, this is someone's going to buy that. So hold on my hands in my ass. Shopping for groceries was a death sentence. You walked in the door and a man covered in pork and maybe drink syrup. I've been up to my elbow was in parking all day. It's time for a sweet treat. I just earned myself a sweet treat. I was in the pork belly for 15 minutes. I'm buying a sweet treat. You want a sweet treat? You see my doctor told me I have to go on a little bit of a diet. So I'm drinking more syrup. Yeah. You get it. I'm doing a syrup and pickle juice cleanse. Anyway, what piece of pork do you want out of this barrel? Or do you want to try your luck with the pork barrel or you can lick my apron. An apron licks a salty nickel. So Graham's diet was embraced by a lot of people. Graham was also very upset with white bread. Sure. His main target was white flour stripped of its healthful germ. Graham saw white flour as a poor substitute for whole wheat. It did not give the teeth or the stomach a proper workout and it led to a lazy colon. He wrote in the treatise on bread and bread making. My Bible. Yeah. That's my favorite Michael Bay film. That's his best out of page. It's really good. It's great. Graham accused commercial bakers of not only refining their flour into a sinful extreme but also growing their grain on debauched and exhausted soil artificially stimulated with animal manure. Bakers were furious. They attacked a Boston lecture hall where he was scheduled to speak in March 1837. The bakers are coming. They do like a dry by flowering or something. Now roll yourselves out. Wait. What did we do? Go. Go. Go. Graham barely avoided being physically assaulted in the confrontation. His reputation took another pounding. And we've got milkmen in tow in case you are wondering. His reputation took another pounding when the staff doctor of a Boston lunatic asylum declared that Graham was obviously insane. Well that hurts. Yeah. Doesn't help things. By the way that's how bad America was. The anti-masterbation lunatic was right about every fucking other thing. That's the world. This is the twilight zone that Americans were living in at the time. They had to call off one lecture because they thought it would lead to a riot of bakers. A baker riot? There's bread everywhere. These cakes aren't rising. His ideas on diet and hygiene were largely ridiculed. Ralph Waldo Emerson called him the prophet of bran and pumpkins. Boom. Which would easily get him to be the Starbucks CEO. That's right. Yeah. That's a rap diss that I ever heard one. Yo man this is a prophet of bran and pumpkin. Oh shit. Oh shit. No he didn't. But Graham's followers still grow in numbers. Graham was not the first to espouse many of these ideas but he singularly made health a moral crusade. Some saw him as a visionary. During the 1830s many American Puritans took up the diet. At one point it was strictly imposed on students of Oberlin College by David Campbell during the period in which it was enforced summer rebellious students ate off campus. Yeah. Take that system. They're like the Delta House of Oberlin. Come on Bluto let's go get some salt pork. Hey Larry you want to get some white bread? Yeah. Little syrup shake. That crazy fraternity with her eating white bread. Because of rebels. At one point a professor was fired for refusing to stop bringing his own pepper. Okay so. So wow. What did I tell you professor O'Donohue? I don't remember. No more peppers. All right. All right not here. Wait what? You're fired. For what? Pepper. You're bullshit. You're a fucking masturbate. Not the bakers. Graham's system of living even inspired the establishment of several male only boarding houses where grandma meals were served and Graham's precise sleeping exercise and bathing regimes were strictly enforced. It's just so that was the least masturbating place on earth. It's fun to stay at the grandma hotel. Fun to stay at the grandma hotel. You can hang out with guys who do not masturbate. You can eat lots of fruits and grains. And I'm sorry. Graham speaking fees as well to as much as 300 per night as he jumped into new areas of medical investigation he preached such as here we go he preached against the danger of feather beds and tight corsets claiming that folly and dress killed 80,000 Americans a year. He criticized schools warning that the disappropriate exit they were a disappropriate exercise of the brain and it was dangerous. You gotta be sales towel. And and schools were dangerous for they lead to a gentle stability of the nervous system involving the genital organs. Oh there we are back to the genies so that's good. Well if you go to school you're like yeah you don't want to learn too much or your penis will fall off. Yeah I've always said that I'm unwrapping. I ain't I ain't sending my son to some school to get his dick fucked up. Goddamn books they'll probably slam his dick in the book that's what Graham's talking about. His friend went to school you know what happened he got no balls on her dick they're both gone. I don't know where they went he cracked the book his dick fell right off. Brought his own pepper too. You're gonna read yourself into being a eumnic. Such eccentric opinions caused Graham's light to fade on the national stage. Oh why? So he crossed the line. He crossed the line with the schools and the corsets. Oh no no no no. That's gonna hurt your jaw. You were making sense up until now. When he started talking about corsets that was his uh Billy idols love me tonight. That was when that video came out in Kildesburg that was his look it up people it destroyed a career in one night look at the fuck up. I'm sorry rock you tonight. What about rock me tonight not love you tonight. How about Michael Keaton's Jack Frost? Um fair. Yeah but he came back. Yeah well it's gonna take Graham a while. Maybe there's a bird man in his future. He retired fingers crossed. He retired to north Hampton Massachusetts where he continued to pour forth medical and spiritual advice. And not he had an ugly end. Oh no. By 1850 his health and status had declined to the point where one of his neighbors described him as oh boy this is exciting. In firm seated in a wheelbarrow. What? Wait you didn't wait just to be clear you said wheelbarrow. Say wheelbarrow. In firm seated in a wheelbarrow. Fair okay. And clothed in a long dressing gown of bed ticking wheeled through the streets to the post office by a man servant. That's how I want to end up. That's where I see myself. Let me put on my nightgown and take me to the post office. Wheel me around like dirt. A wheelbarrow is your mode of transportation is kind of fucking awesome. And you have a man servant the guy. What does that guy do when he's off work? Hey so what do you do? What's your job man? He said it was a I push this crazy guy around a wheelbarrow all day and he just doesn't jerk off and uh hey look no pepper in my life that's all I gotta do. I'm a riding baker by week and then I'm a wheelbarrow man at weekends. Today Graham is most famous for developing his own process for making whole wheat flour which he used for his gram bread. Today we know this as graham crackers. Oh man wait a minute wait wait wait did you just ruin graham crackers a little bit? You did right? Wow like they're now they're not as good. You wow the Nabisco company is gonna come after you so fucking hard. Masterbaters eat goldfish. Could I just say to yeah to whoever's listening I'm just a guest on this I do not want to piss off big Graham. That's all I'm saying. I do not want to piss off big Graham. I got a career. Jesus for the man who don't want to stop jerking off. Are your hands greasy? Use them. Come like a cannon with Triskits. That's their slogan. That's why they got those quadrants right here. Today we know that Ms. Graham crackers though it has been transformed into the very thing he spent his life railing against sweet flavor and mass production. Amazing. Jesus that's right. What a great legacy. So he made them flavorless and some of them was like let's put some sugar or honey in here. Fuck that guy. Oh they taste good. I've always loved maple syrup. Maybe we pour a little of that on there and have a whackadoo. You know what's good on this vegan salad? Bacon, birds. Bingo. Add some bacon, birds. No one will know. Now back to William Miller. Oh okay. In 1831 in the town of Jessen William Miller decided it was time to reveal his Bible math theory that Jesus was about to return. Isn't it great that you almost forget about the Bible math theory as knee deep as we are in this? And he read it at a lecture there and people's minds were blown. He then wrote 16 articles for the Vermont Telegraph and everyone was in. I get quote. I began to be flooded with letters of inquiries, inquiry, respecting my views and visitors flocked to converse with me on the subject. He became overwhelmed with requests from people to travel and give speeches about his awesome new Bible and days math. So he wrote a book. Oh boy. Evidence from Scripture and History of the Second Coming of Christ about the year 1844 exhibited in a course of lectures. So he didn't have an editor. By the year 1840 it was on. Or Super Fudge. That was the other title. Or Super Fudge. By the year 1840 it was on. Millerism had gone from a local Waco idea to a national campaign. It was driven by periodical literature. There were at least 48 Millerite periodicals being circulated. It spread to Great Britain, Britain, Norway, Chile and Australia. I'm sorry. What was that? Australia? That seems to be your accent for every country, by the way. I'm just saying. No, I'll do one for Great Britain. It was also happening in Chile. And you said you had a Great Britain? Yeah. And Norway? Oh, come on. Oh yeah. And then one more time, Australia, just to make sure we got it. Hello. Okay. Well, that's very, very simple. I want you. Okay. No more Australian. Yeah, that's okay. Now everyone wanted an exact date because, you know, he was doing math. Come on, man. Sure. I mean, at this point, Miller would not give one. Oh, I've got it narrowed down to the year. But that's not good enough. He narrowed it down to a timeframe sometime in the Jewish year beginning in the Gregorian year of 1843. Quote, my principles in brief are that Jesus Christ will come again to this earth, cleanse, purify and take possession of the same with all the saints sometime between March 21, 1843 and March 21, 1844. Boom. It's pretty good. Got a year. You got a year window. Posted on your calendar. Yeah. So people start selling their houses and going up to the woods and getting ready for the end times. And then the smart people are like, this is a really cheap house. Okay. I can live here for sure. So no spoilers, but everyone, everyone knows Jesus didn't come back. Well, not necessarily March 21, 1844 came and went with no Jesus fire. So Miller went back and checked his math. He didn't carry the five. Classic Miller. It turns out he made a mistake. No. Yep. He used the wrong calendar. He used the rabbinic calendar rabbinic rabbinic calendar. Sure. He should have used the that's his karate. That's got to be a karate calendar. It's got to be it. It's got to be an autocorrect, but the karate Jewish calendar. That's autocorrect. The karate Jewish calendar. It's like with a circumcision. It's whack on whack off. So he's a mistake. He came up with a new date. New date. What's the new date? April 18, 1844. That's like less than a month away. Wow. Sadly, there's no breathing room, basically. No. So sadly, the 18th came and went and no Christ. Again? Yeah. What? What is this guy's deal? Kind of a bummer. What's Jesus's deal? Did he check attack Wando calendar? Yeah. Was the calendar jujitsu? So they had so the Millerites were mad because they wanted him to use ju-do. Get it? Because the thing with the... You're up. You're up. You're up. You're up. You're up. You're up. You're up. You're up. There you are. You're up. You're up, baby. You're back. So the Millerites had a big meeting in August of 1844. Big meeting August 1844 and a dude named Samuel Snow discovered new math. Oh, of course. Guess what? Christ wasn't coming again. This fucking year, October 22, 1844. Boom. August 22, 1844. Mark ever became known as the Great Disappointment. Why? Wait, wait, wait. Jesus did not come. What? Yeah. But he keeps saying you're kind of... Where is he? This guy... This is the Star Wars prequels of prophecies then. Brutal. There was just some weird figure like, I'm not Jesus. I helped through. You're like, oh god, this fucking asshole. Millerite leaders and followers were bewildered and disillusioned and they fractured. Some kept pushing the date. What about September 1845? Sure. Others joined the Quakers. Hey, what are you guys doing? Some joined the the shakers who believe that Christ had already appeared for the second time in the person of Mother Anne Lee. Sorry, the shakers? So there's the Quakers and the shakers. And what about the bakers? So there's the Quakers, there's the shakers and then there's bakers in this and then there's the math takers. Yeah. I will, I'm allowing. Gary, was that like a rivalry? I don't know if there were rivals, but yeah. Whoever came up first would have been like, fuck you guys. What's your problem? I know they had a football league. Quakers v. Shakers? I just love that the shakers already thought Christ came back in a lady called Anne Lee. They were like, that's Jesus. We solved it. It's her. Anyway, what's next? Hello, I'm Jesus. You heard it here first, gang. Who wants a jar of preserves? That's her. Him. Sounds like Jesus, right? Yeah. So, uh, many just went back to the original churches and many Millerites split into three main factions. Miller continued to believe that Christ was returning and he chalked up the heirs to human error. He decided that there is human error in Bible chronology. Shocker. That could throw the date off somewhat and account for the discrepancy. But what about new math? Ah, well, that he can't do new math if someone wrote down the first shit wrong. Yeah, exactly. Think about it. You fucking heathen. He died on December 20th, 1849, believing Christ was coming at any moment. That's all I want to go. Oh, man, I would have loved to have been on his bedside and literally as I go, oh, I see him coming. No, no, no, don't, don't, don't. Oh my God, not now. One more second and it'll all be. Oh, sorry, dude. We're a fella. One of the three main groups Millerites split into were the seventh day Adventists. Oh boy. The seventh day Adventists decided that on October 1844, some shit did go down. But it was in heaven. Loop hole. Bullshit loophole. No, it happened. What? Up there. Yeah. Is that, is that where the term the seventh day comes from? It was the seventh one that they were predicting. I'm not being funny. Was that, is that where their title comes from? Seventh day Adventists and it happened to no one saw it. It must be. That's gotta be. It's a great name. For about, for about 20 years. Really takes a little shine off that name though, right? It does. Yeah. Seventh guessers. For about, yeah, they should, they should have called themselves the all right fine Adventists. Wrong six times Adventists. For about 20 years, the seventh day Adventists were loosened at groups, spread out and mostly reading periodicals. Then the church was formed and established in Battle Creek, Michigan on May 21st, 1863 with a membership of 3500. So they're getting it going. Between the great disappointment and the official founding of the church, a boy was born into the world. No, no, no. His name, John Harvey Kellogg. Oh boy. Poor kid already. Poor kid. His parents were seventh day Adventists and they moved to Battle Creek, Michigan in 1860. His father opened a broom factory. A what? A broom factory? A broom factory. Oh, cool. All right. So it's the kind of job you want to brag about. People weren't sweeping. That's how they would bathe. They would just sweep themselves. One of the early fatters of the Adventists was a woman named Ellen G. White. Ellen's parents were Millerites and she was raised terrified that she would be eternally lost. When she was nine, she was hit in the face with a large rock. I shouldn't laugh at that, but what the hell? She grows up terrified and then on top of it, someone hits her with a rock. Giant rock right in the face. Her nose was disfigured and she was in a coma for several weeks. But she awoke and soon after began having visions of rocks. No! Many neurologists think her early injury may have caused partial complex seizures and hallucinations, which led her to believe that she had visions of God. Nevertheless, the Adventists took Ellen's visions as real. She had thousands of visions, all of which fit nicely into the Adventist beliefs. So wait, because a urologist? Neurologist. Oh, I thought you said a urologist. That changes everything. That changes everything for me. My whole point's different. No, no, I was, I'm saying that neurologists looking back on it think that, but I also don't think there were urologists back there. Well, at my head, urologists were doing everything at that point. Like Graham was the kind of doctor that they had. They didn't have a guy that was like, can I, let's check your urologist. Well, that's why I thought the urologist being like, yeah, no, she's fine. I checked her head. She's all set. I drank some of her piss. She's good to go. So she began having visions of angels blaring the call of a perfect diet. That way. On June 6, 1873, an angel told her to eat two meals a day, mostly of gram bread, fruit, and vegetables. Shut the fuck up. To be avoided was salt, lard, spices, coffee, tea, tobacco. Meat was also forbidden. So Ellen White was having visions about the gram diet. I'm the angel of Atkins. Give me a sign, God. Talk to the coma girl that with the diet tips. That's my messenger on earth. Could I have done better? Sure, I could have done better. Probably sure I could have done better. For sure. I'm just back. Yeah. Okay, the US was a filthy place back then. Life expectancy was 41 years. In the slums of the city's death was frequent among the working class to work in 19th century factories was like a death sentence. Well, rocks were flying around all the time. Apparently. Lead poisoning was common in certain trades like printing pottery, paint warrants, and shipbuilding. And it was common to have the streets just filled with rotting waste. Wow. Alrighty. Also, the, um, that was, there was another profession lead drinking was really dangerous. Hot occupation. Hot occupation. Oh, it's really hard. Most people took baths once a week while others never bothered to bathe. Sure. Sure. Sure. Sure. Bacteria was common in water wells. Lack of sanitation and health habits made it easy for people to become ill. Hospitals were not any better. Doctors view disease as an imbalance of bodily humors. Oh, yeah. So they would so they would just bleed off. They would just bleed off extra blood. Sure. A doctor would drain a pint or two for days from a patient's body purging the body generally followed by bloodletting. They did this by giving strong drugs such as mercury and strict nine. God, what the fuck? Which were extremely poisonous. Yeah, it's all bad. But, but, but, but there's diary and vomiting were considered symptoms of recovery. You're dying. You're getting better. And that's the drugs we're working. Our father's had a heart attack. Give me 20 cc's of poison stat. Oh, he's shitting out of his eyes. Yeah. He's not moving anymore. I think he's better. Thanks, doctor. Doctors are not very well trained. A person, what are you sure? Because it sounds like they are. A person could go to a diploma mill for four to eight months to get medical training of the day and then set up practice. No, no, no, no, no, no. It felt like there was anybody regulating it. It's just a guy would just go. That's my issue. That's my issue. Yeah. All right. For your final exam, poke this guy, make him bleed. All right. Here's your diploma. Hey, I did it, honey. By 1800, Columbia, Harvard and Dartmouth had established medical departments. These institutions consisted of five or six non-salary professors, usually physicians, and they made their money by selling their lecture notes to students. Jesus Christ. I mean, how could that go wrong? It's just set up. Yeah. Yeah. Here's another one. Buy that. Well, I work on selling bullshit. So here's the bullshit. How's that? All right, great. So there were hundreds of people calling themselves doctors practicing medicine with no training. One of the earliest institutions in the United States designed to deal with illness was located in Danville, New York. Dr. James Jackson and Dr. Russell Troll promoted health reform and used the idea of hydrotherapy, ice and steam to treat their parents. Patience. Yeah. Patience. Okay. Patience. Way better. Way better. Way better. Yeah. Way better. That was one of Sylvester Graham's ideas. Hose them off. Ellen White's husband, James White, received treatment at the Danville, New York Institution and on their way home, they stopped in Rochester, New York to visit friends where Ellen had a vision. No, no, no. No, no, no. She saw that the Adventist should establish a water cure and vegetation institution where he properly balanced Godfrey and course of treatments could be made available. So she had a vision about the place they were just at and thought that she should do that. I'm having a vision that's exactly like where we just were. Let's open one. Isn't that a memory? No, it's a vision. No, I'm seeing it. I can see it. I can see it. That's like where we were an hour and a half ago. She's got a vision. The Seventh Day Adventist opened a sanitarium in Battle Creek nine months later. It was all about pure air, sunlight, rest, water cures, exercise, and proper diet. It opened on September 5th, 1866 as the Western Health Reform Institute. The first nurses at the Institute were Adventist farm women who volunteered their time to do everything from chopping wood to administering massages. Sometimes they would mix those up. It really, that was not good. My shoulder! I'm sorry. I was just rubbing some birch. Sorry. That's my bad. Just rubbing this log and I guess you know how it is. I've only have two hands. It soon became obvious they needed trained staff and professional administration. The hospital had gone into debt so they appointed John Preston Kellogg as treasurer. John Harvey Kellogg, now a teenager, became his father's assistant. Oh boy. The whites felt that John Harvey Kellogg had the potential to provide a leadership of the Institute. They subsidized his medical education at the University of Michigan and the Bellevue Hospital Medical College in New York City. While in New York Kellogg would breakfast on seven graham crackers and an apple, one coconut a week, and an occasional side dish of potatoes. Then at 24 in 1876 leading church members persuaded Kellogg to take over as physician in chief despite his youth and total lack of experience. Well that's a good sign. He's self-taught. He... Take a run at it John. Come on. What's the worst that could happen? I could kill him. We got masseuses killing people with axes. He replaced the term sanatorium with the new name sanitarium. Oh. The Battle Creek Medical Surgical Sanitarium was to be sanitary. Place where people learn to stay well. Kellogg issued the seventh day Adventist vegetarian diet and revised it. Meanwhile the Dearborn Filthatorium was like, it's never gonna catch on. We're good. You know they might have a good couple months. But long term? Nothing. Oh yeah. I'll be back to the Filthatorium. You go up to the place where they clean you up but you'll come back wanting to throw up shit all over you in a fucking heartbeat. Have fun. Where you gonna eat pork and drink syrup? Yeah rotate the patients into vomit baths. Yeah. It's a Filthatorium you sissy. You knew what you signed up for. He advised patients to eat what the monkey eats. Simple food and not too much of it. He pushed peanut butter, lacked a monkey, and invented a mechanical horse for exercising. Oh my god. Yeah. He preached the value of aerobic exercise using recorded music. No. Zumba. Yeah. And he was super obsessed with colons. Now should we be worried? Here we go. We should be worried. We're jumping into the colon boys. Because up until then this guy sounds like a monkey. Anyway go ahead. Well hold on to your asshole. Well. Kellogg considered the colon central to good health. He lectured on the theory of auto intoxication, a self poisoning caused by the too slow breakdown of food in the intestines and colon. He preached a vegetarian diet, exercise, and frequent bowel movements three a day. Quote, a house broken colon is a damaged colon. I'm sorry. What? What does that mean? I don't think he said it. I don't think anybody knew what it meant. Wait. No, no, no. I think he is saying shit your pants. Yeah. Yeah. Don't tell you. Your colon should tell you when it's going to shit and you have no saying it. It's not up to you if you're not. Go. Yeah. So no holding. Some of his health and fitness regime seemed unusual. Like exercising in athletic diapers. Oh boy. So that is what he's saying. Yeah. He wants you to work out so hard that you shit your pants. All right. 10 and rest. Take a shit. Get ready guys. Get those weights. Let's get some music for you guys. Do you believe in love? That'll help. That'll help. He believed in dunks into electrified water pools. Sure. Sure. Sure. Sure. Sure. Eel baths. And multiple daily enemas. Okay. So what's happening right now? Multiple. Yeah. Multiple. That's like eight. That's more than one, which is crazy. For a time Kellogg promoted a Fletcher rising or chewing food until it slithered down the throat. Go. Wait. What? He wanted you to chew food until it just found its own way down. Am I crazy to think I call that eating? No. No. You chew food until you can get it down. He was like. You chew until it naturally is like I'm ready to glide. There it is. Did my Adam's apple move? Then I did it right. But truly his first love was the bowels. That's just everybody's first love. I mean. From the beginning of his time as a doctor Kellogg was fascinated with the bowel. Quote. It was his favorite piece of anatomy. His first love. I mean that's just a red flag, right? Well, it's a brown flag. It was right there people. I'm not going to pick it up. It's right there. The bowels held him in rapture. Once. Oh my God. He liked the bowels. Yeah, but it held him in rapture. Rapture. Get into me. Get into it. Once when an Adventist interrogator framed all of his medical questions in terms of religious beliefs, Kellogg turned on him. It's got a man with two arms and legs like me. He demanded. Does he have eyes ahead? Does he have bowels? No. The Adventist answered, deeply offended. Well, I do cried Kellogg and that makes me more wonderful than he is. You know that. I'm better than God because I have bowels. But that is like one of those situations. Can God shit? That's like. Can he shit? No, he chooses not to. Then I am better than he. No, you just didn't have a comeback. You didn't have a comeback. I'm wearing a diaper. Unlike God, who can't shit himself when riding around on a carriage. God could shit himself if he desired to. I'm not the Lord and I have diarrhea. I just feel like we're on different pages. I really was saying different arguments. Sir, your 315 enema is here. If we could wrap this up in your 315 enema. Thank you. Thank you, James. Okay, you're welcome. Thank you. They're going to put a hose in my asshole. I'm trying to leave. According to Kellogg, 90% of human ills originated in the bowels. The bow got, yes, 90%. Okay, just want to make sure we have the number right. More math that works if you think about it. Working self taught math for sure. What he's saying is if cancer was up your ass, he'd know where it was. Exactly. Thank you. Thank you. The bow got Kellogg's undivided medical attention. The pure of... Oh boy. It got changed again by the... Okay, the purification changes, which occur in the undigested residues of flesh foods were to blame, he explained. Guess who arrived at Battle Creek? Soon learned that their once pristine bowel was actually a sewer of auto intoxication full of poisons like Cretan, Skeetal and Indole. I'm going to like it here. I didn't know that. You're dirty on the inside, Patton. Kellogg's influence and enthusiasm made the bowel not only an acceptable subject of polite conversation, but a national obsession. Wow. More and more people became convinced that their bowel must be given an antiseptic cleaning. The bowel, poisoned by meat eating, drinking, smoking and usually anything pleasurable was poked, prodded and probed by attendants at the sanitarium. And the list of people coming was the who's, who's of the US. Oh boy. These included Otto Baron Henry Ford. Wow. Retailers J.C. Penney and S.S. Acrege. It's me, J.C. Penney. Have a look. Who's my asshole? Actress Sarah Bernard, explorer William Byrd, inventor Thomas Edison. Wow. Industrialist Harvey Firestone, President William Howard Taft. Holy Taft's ass. You had to go into Taft's ass. Into Taft's ass. You were like, there's bats. William. That's when they built the first submarine, by the way. That was, that's a whole other dollop. The hunt for red polyp. And Amelia Earhart. And talk show host Larry King. I can't believe I'm here either. Well, it's my 50th birthday. I thought I'd come by and have you poke my colon. Coming up next one that I'd show Amelia Earhart, Henry Ford and Martin Landau. I'm the next Larry King dead. Kellogg made sure that the bowel of each and every patient was plied with water. His favorite device was an enum machine that could run 15 gallons of water through bowel in a matter of seconds. What the fuck? What the actual fuck? What the actual fucking fuck? 15 gallons? I'm sorry. How do you feel? Like I just fell in six legs. What the fuck? I think Amelia Earhart crashed her plane on purpose. She's like, fuck this. If this is the world I'm in, I'm going down in the goddamn ocean. I'd put another kiddie pool up my asshole. She saw the water. She was like, no more water. I've had enough. Full. After the water enema, a patient was given a pint of yogurt, half of which was eaten, and the other half was taken through the anus. Oh boy. Thus, quote, thus planting the protective germs where they are most needed and may render most effective service. He's the Willy Wonka of Collins. Come with me and you'll see a world of pure irrigation. Come with me. Jesus Christ. Sorry, some of these strawberries at the bottom are going to be tough. I knew we were doing yogurt, but not the strawberry at the bottom. That's all that left. It was nine for $9, so load it up. Well, can I have a napkin? This one's actually trick flavored, so that'll be fun. Damn it. If a healthy dollop of yogurt was not enough to do the trick. Everything's fine. Too much masturbating. Thank you. So hairy. If a healthy dollop of yogurt was not enough to do the trick, more drastic steps were necessary. If auto intoxication persisted and I just, I assume that if people were making smelly farts, he'd be like, well, we have to do more. You're not cured yet. The offending stretch of intestine was removed. Kellogg performed as many as 20 operations a day of intestine removal. Yes. Cause people would smelly. But they didn't have anesthesia yet, did they? They had yogurt. Feels like the same. I believe they did have anesthesia this time. For the doctors. For the doctors. All right, I'm going to do this crazy thing. Uh, the result Kellogg claimed was nothing short of a medical revolution. By pumping yogurt cultures into rectums of Americans, Kellogg claimed that he had managed to cure cancer of the stomach, ulcers, diabetes, schizophrenia, manic depressive, acne, anemia, migraine and premature old age. There was nothing. You mean aging? You mean aging. Yeah. Okay. So schizophrenia and aging, yogurt up your ass. There was nothing a clean bowel couldn't handle except for life. He also created a vibrating chair. The chair would shake violently. It was painful to sit in, but after a few minutes of treatment, it would supposedly stimulate intestinal peristellis. Oh, the shit chair. Peristellis is a radically symmetrical contraction and relaxation of the muscles that propagates in a wave down a tube. In this case, the tube is the intestine. Now, normally that's not how the large intestine works. Normally the large intestine is able to hold stuff in. So basically he created a chair that would shake you so hard that you would shit on yourself. Welcome to the Institute. How do you feel? Oh, JC Penney. This summer at six flags. Get ready for shit chair. Okay. Okay. He said that here at headaches. Of course it did because you would shit the chair. Okay. A day at the sanitary and went like this. Patients performed calisthenics at 7am, followed by laughing exercises. That's where he talked about his medical practices. Indian club demonstrations and gymnastic classes. They were stood all manner of mechanical massage, pummelings with trunk rollers, pounding with chest beaters, and punches from stomach beaters. What? It sounds like Dr. Sue. It does. I'm going to say it. It sounds like... They stood on vibrating platforms to stimulate their inner organs, galloped on mechanical horses, or sat on Kellogg's patented vibrating chair. They bathed endlessly inside and out with salt baths, steam baths, hot water baths, cold water baths, showers, douches, formulations, and a high-powered enema good night. And then Tuesday, Kellogg received an enema from an orderly every morning after breakfast. In the cafeteria in front of everybody just to let them know, welcome to the institute. Now pork and syrup is going to be flying. Now being a Seventh Day Adventist, Kellogg was one of the most ardent anti-masterbaters in the United States of America. He was down on sex in general thinking it was detrimental to physical, emotional, and spiritual well-being. He actually abstained from sex himself, never consummating his marriage over four decades. Oh, because he was shitting his pants. Who wants to consummate that? Can you finger me? John. Not till after the chair. Please. Chair first, then maybe you. Just finger me. Just fill your diaper and finger blasphemy, please. I've got the tug of water. Don't not now. I'm sitting, sort of. He and his wife had separate bedrooms and adopted all of their children. Why? Why did they have separate bedrooms? I don't know. They had 42 foster children adopting eight of them. Sorry? They had 42 foster children and then they adopted eight. So that means that house must have smelled like shit in ways you can't imagine. He would show each child his balls and say, you didn't come out of these. Happy birthday. He cataloged 39 different symptoms of a person plagued by masturbation. This is exciting. If you noted any one of these symptoms, you would know that someone was a masturbator. They included defective development, mood swings, thick illness, bashfulness, unnatural boldness, stiff joints, paralysis. How fucked up is that? Some kid gets paralyzed and he's like, he's a masturbator. Let me ask you this, Tim. Did you masturbate one time? Well, God hates you. No more walking. Got what you got coming. Get your boy. God dealt with you. Why don't you try to grab your dick now? I bet you wish you could feel that hard dick, don't you? Those days are done, my man. Girl, fondness for spicy foods. So all Mexicans are masturbators, basically. The entire continent of Mexico, they're all masturbators. Acne? Acne. Sure. Did I say continent? Country? God damn it. I'm sorry. Jesus Christ. You're an American. Yeah, it's true. Easily frightened. Oh yeah, easily frightened. Oh, somebody's been whacking it. Round shoulders. I mean, honestly. What? If you were born with like a hunchback, you'd be like, look at the jerk-off boy. Palpitations. Palpitations. Sputting was masturbating. Sleeplessness. Sure, not being all the sleepy jerk-off too much. Untrustworthiness. You lied to me, you masturbator. Paleness. All the Irish. You pasty jerk-off. No, Great Britain is off the map. Yeah, the whole fucking place. And all emos. And God. Fingernail biting. Oh yeah. Moist cold hands. Sure, yeah, nature's lube. Bedwetting and epilepsy. Oh, hey, shaky. Oh, let me guess. You just want to get a hand on that dick while you shake on the ground? Don't you, you filthy monger? Kellogg said masturbating would cause cancer of the womb, urinary diseases, nocturnal emissions, impudence, insanity, and mental and physical disability, as well as the classic, classic blindness. To quote, such a victim literally dies by his own hand. And then he would drop the mic and go to the shit chair. Boom. That's right, motherfuckers. In that list of side effects. In that list, the side effects is nocturnal emissions, which is what dreams, right? Yeah. Okay. I just want to make sure. Kellogg's first solution for jerking off was a healthy diet. Taking from Graham, he thought that meat and certain flavorful or seasoned foods increase sexual desires and that plainer food, especially serious and nuts, could curb it. He was not the only one who believed a healthy diet with stop masturbation. Dr. Jackson, who had treated the whites previously when she had the, yeah, he felt the same. He created a new food. He mixed water and un-sifted flour, ground, little bits and baked it twice. He called this mess granola. And it was the world's first cold breakfast cereal. The crunchy, flavorless concoction had to be soaked in milk to be soft enough to chew and people did not like it. But the people who hated masturbation wanted it. And an industry was born. Kellogg then created- No, no, it's fucking Kellogg? What? What? Shut the fuck up. Shut the fuck up. Tony, the fucking tigers at Kahoot. Snap, crackle, fucking pop. Oh my God. You guys saw it live. I see it every week across the table. It's the same thing every week. Takes him that long. Holy shit. Oh my God, that's amazing. Kellogg then created the world's second cold breakfast cereal and also named it granola. And Jackson- Yum! Jackson was like, hey, that was my name. Then I made my stuff and Kellogg was like, yeah, okay. And then Jackson took him to court and Kellogg renamed it granola. Oh, Kellogg. But alas, the diet did not always stop masturbation, so other means were necessary. Kellogg offered- Here comes Captain Crunch. You know life on the ship can get pretty lonely. Don't fondle your crunch berries. Just run the real flag up the pole. Kellogg offered parents guidance for dealing with their son's self-exploration in a section of his book titled Treatment for Self-Abuse and Its Effects. One idea was to tie a child's hands to his bed posts at night. I'll see you later Dave. Thanks. Thank you buddy. Thank you buddy. Don't you feel better? Don't make mommy get the shit chair. And then there was circumcision. The foreskin was blamed as a major problem. First, it supposedly reduced the secretions that would get inflamed around the foreskin and thus stop young boys itching their penises, which would lead to jerking off. A public school sex education manual at the time says keeping kids from scratching their dong is the only way to keep them out of the insane asylum. Quote, a remedy which is almost always successful in small boys is circumcision. The operation should be performed by a surgeon without administering an anesthetic as the brief pain attending the operation will have a salutary effect upon the mind especially if it be connected with the idea of punishment. Whoa. So hurt the dick so they never touch it. Right. The idea is you cut off that happy part of the cock without any anesthesia and then the kid is like, my car hurts all the time. I'm never going to touch that again. Now try some frosted flakes. People actually took up this idea, but they mostly went with anesthesia. Neonatal circumcision. Pussy. Quitters. Pussy. Quitters. I want my kid's dick not to hurt. Neonatal circumcision then crept into the American delivery rooms in the 1870s and 80s because of the claim that later in life it would prevent irritation that would cause the boy to become a masturbator. Up until this time, most non-Jewish American boys were not circumcised and today's circumcision in the US is common. I'm circumcised. You should know it and it's because of some crazy fucking asshole. But Dave, you did stop masturbating. It is true. You haven't ever masturbated. Were you eating yogurt? Are you talking about since 10 this morning? Yeah. You say 10 this morning or 10 years old? It's this morning. How much activity is up your ass right now? As tibia. If parents didn't want to, okay ready? If parents didn't want to lop off part of their child's penis without numbing it first, Kellogg recommended the application of one or more silver, silver sutures in such a way as to prevent the erection. What the fuck? Are you serious? The foreskin is drawn forward over the glands and the needle to which the wires attached is passed through one side to the other. After drawing the wire through, the ends are twisted together. No! That's a penis! No, it's like a sardine can. And you cut it off and you just tie the penis clothes. Now it's impossible to get erect or piss. But it's not impossible to get erect because your your dick's still gonna tear through it like a fucking Hulk breaking out of a cage. You can't hold a penis in fucking... Matter of time until that dick's flipping tanks on the street. I keep thinking about how you couldn't pee. You could not piss. How could you piss through that? I mean it would just be like, yeah it would just be like, hey it's a fun little sprinkler for the kids to run through. Parents were assured that sewing their son's penis into its foreskin acts as a most powerful means of overcoming the disposition to resort to the practice of masturbation. God damn it. But he wasn't just interested in stopping boys from self-love. Oh good. He had an idea for the girls. Oh good, good. That's right ladies, it's your turn. Hang on here, pussies. He advised the application of carboic acid to the clitorises of little girls to teach them not to touch themselves. It takes a lot to want the penis trap. But I might be there. Today, today medical doctors know that the carboic acid is extremely poisonous and when applied to tissues, directly to muscle or nerve it causes instant paralysis. If carboic acid did not do the trick, Kellogg reasoned it was necessary to remove... No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. That's a strong version. By the way, this is making me rethink how much I like Eminem's song, Acid on Your Pussy. Like now I don't think I like, I mean, now that I know that's where it's from, that's not cool. It's less catchy. Yeah, it's way less catchy. Kellogg continued coming up with different foods to eat that would keep people from touching their genitals. Over a few years, he put many new items on the market under catchy names, organizing a new company for each one. Some were substitutes for meat, others coffee, packaged in brightly colored boxes and easy to prepare. The foods were an instant success. The growing popularity of his products caused Kellogg to hire his younger brother, William Kellogg, as business manager. John always insisted he only wanted to improve health of his patients, not profit from health business. Always seeking new substitutes for animal products, the brothers one day discovered that wheat could be flaked. Instead of pulverizing the wheat into a flour, they steamed it and ran it between heavy rollers that squeezed the grain into flakes. John believed the diet of flakes could greatly curb masturbation. Here we go. For girls, he envisioned that the flakes could be used as a mild irritant douche. What? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Because we're about to hear about fucking corn flakes. What? And you're about to say that people were fucking douching with corn flakes? What? Yeah. That rooster's going to get its fucking head cut off. Douche with corn flakes? Part of this balanced pussy. The guys at the sanatorium love the product and soon everyone was clamoring for it. As a service to former patients, the Kellogg started the Sanitas Nut Food Company. He put his younger brother in charge of the business to produce the cereal for mail orders. Will continue to experiment on his own, developing a process for flaking corn in 1898. At that point, he left to go into business for himself. And on February 19th, 1906, the Battle Creek Toasted Corn Flake Company organized. The product was later named the Kellogg Company. He took corn flakes and made it the company's biggest item, packaging it in a box with a slogan, the genuine bears this signature WK Kellogg. From the beginning, the public liked corn flakes. Soon after opening the original plant, it was turning on 1000 cases a day. Less than a year later, production was four times that. A second plant started operation, but could barely fill demand. A bitter feud erupted between the brothers when Will gained sole rights to the market products of the Kellogg Toasted Corn Flake Company. The battle was brutal and the brothers relationship was finished. Another patient at the sanatorium for a while was a man named CW Post. No! No! You motherfucker! Holy shit! I mean, this is fucking, are you fucking me? Are you kidding me, Dave? I mean, are you seriously? How the fuck does nobody know this shit? I think some people do. Post was an inventor, a salesman, and a manufacturer of agricultural machinery. He had a nervous breakdown in 1885. I'm sure! Did he see like green clovers, yellow stars? That like, is that what he was? Red balloons! After his breakdown, he moved to Texas and became involved in a real estate development project on 200 acres he owned in Fort Wayne. The stress of that led to another mental breakdown in 1991, and he decided to check out the idea of Cure Through Diet and ended up at Battle Creek. Hopefully exercising. He decided to check out the idea of Cure Through Diet and ended up at Battle Creek, hopefully exercising while wearing diapers and having yogurt pumped up his asshole. Sure, sure, sure. The beginning of every great man's story, that's what I think what I think a Saturday morning cartoon is. That's called the, a man in a diaper getting yogurt ass. That's called the Heroes Journey Act One. How long have you been at the sanitary? About two weeks. I'm starting to think the reason we're wearing diapers and shitting so much is because we're getting yogurt put up our asshole. I'm gonna need to report you to the doctor because... Nope, not here. Excuse me, shit chairs free! Oh shit chairs free! Move, move, move! Out of my way! Turn it to rocket blast! I'm Henry Ford! I'm President William Howard Taft, and I decree that I'm a legal monster! Oh god, let me tell you something. You're new here, but don't get on the vibrating chair after Taft. Woo! Taft is out! They can't clean it. Woo! After being... To the bathtub! I just left, I just left a taft and a half in the shit chair. Oh, I'm saying... A taft and a half! Woo! Woo! After being cured of his mental issues, he remained in Battle Creek and created the cereal post-toasties. Oh, what the fuck? He heavily marketed post-toasties until his product nearly rivaled Kellogg Cornflakes. He then created the mighty anti-masturbatory grape nuts. Now... A couple things. Yeah, go. First of all, having nuts and a non-masturbatory product. Fun! That's fun. Second of all, grape nuts originally marketed as a non-masturbatory... You're nodding, so... I believe I don't know that that's the truth, but boy, that certainly does sound about right. They're blue balls. Sure. Blue nuts, that's what it should have been called. Yeah, they're big purple nuts. Okay, just wanted to make sure that the cereal my athletic mother ate in my childhood was for non-masterbating, as you were. Grape nuts became an international favorite. The post-and-Kellogg companies were on the same side of Battle Creek and competed bitterly. Post-employees could not associate with Kellogg workers. Oh, the masturbated Kelloggs? Down to that factory. My dearest Margaret, the cereal wars drag on. I don't know if I'll ever see your beautiful face again, and... Oh, I so want to jerk off, but I'll grab another bowl of these grape nuts and... I'll tell you, I'm eating a lot of fucking grape nuts right now in battle. I really want to masturbate. They could not, as opposed to employees, could not associate with Kellogg workers, and for years the semi-professional baseball teams maintained by each company could not play against each other because police feared rioting. You cornflakes, son of a bitch! They just feared like a riot where everyone ejaculated in the middle of a melee. Puts me so I can come! Post-claimed grape nuts cured many ailments, including appendicitis. He was sued by a magazine that did not believe his claim after post-stop making claims about the healing powers of grape nuts. Then to really drive the point home, he suffered from appendicitis and eventually shot himself due to the pain. With a barrel full of grape nuts in the mouth! That's how I want to go. He fucking killed himself! People were like, well, no, no more grape nuts theories. That's the end of that chapter. Years later, I'm... I've gone suicidal for cocoa puffs. Folly a nose to the shotgun blast! Oh, that's too far too, Ken! You friends with him? Years later, Post-Em Serials Company changed his name to General Foods Corporation. Will Kellogg and his company remained in Battle Creek, though his relationship with his brother, John, was strained. His name often appeared in news because of his involvement in charity projects. He provided his community with a municipal auditorium and two schools in the youth center and the city's first airport. In 1939, at age 79, Will retired from everyday operations of the company but remained as chairman of the board. John Kellogg died on December 14, 1943, in Battle Creek, Michigan. After John died, Will learned that years earlier John had written a letter to Will attempting to reopen their relationship. But John's secretary decided her employee had demeaned himself and refused to send it. Whoa! It's a judgment call. Yeah. Will Kellogg did not see it until after his brother's death. Will Kellogg died at the age of 91 in Battle Creek, Michigan on October 6, 1951. Let me guess from it. Whoops, all Crunch Berries accident at the back. No? No one remembers that serial? Okay, sorry. How do you feel about your serials? I mean, are you fucking serious? No, that's all made up. Yeah, I'm serious. That all, I mean, that's all real. I just, I honestly like the truth is Dave that you've ruined a lot of things for me. That's true. But the idea now that you're yanking into my brain and grabbing my childhood out and putting it on the ground and stomping on its tough. Sure. Because that is, I mean, that is, that is, I mean, that's what growing up Saturday cartoons were serial made from Kellogg's. All right, I'm going to give an opposing viewpoint. I now love the fact and I'm energized by the idea that every bowl of cereal I have in the morning has that much psychosis in it. Like, I just, I feel like I'm eating their, their psychotic energy every morning. And I'm just going to, like, I just want to, like, I could just punch my way to work every morning. That's how serious that's how much they go. That serial and run to work with a heart on as you run through traffic. Yeah. There should be, there should be like a cornflakes box. It just, their mascot should be just a crazy guy with a shit filled diaper. And just like a boner poking out. Well, wait, wait, am I crazy? Yeah. Cornflakes is already like a rooster, which is a cock. Just making a hard fucking boner already, right? Put that on the fucking box. What about the, the toasted frosty ones, the ones with the... Well, no, so we had the white, the white, the white, the white sheen on top. Once all these guys died, new people showed up and went, let's just put some fucking sugar on this shit. I'm talking about the glazed ones. I think Dave has ensignaled that our frosted flakes are covered in semen. That's what I was trying to tell you, yeah. Frosted flakes are covered in semen. Well, what about... Okay, fine. But you know the minute, the minute the Kellogg brothers died, whoever was second to try this one, are they dead? Okay, put sugar on fucking everything. So, let's get this business going already. Sugar on everything. I don't give a shit. But this is the time... And get the shit chair out of here. Nobody likes the shit chair. This is the time when if you, if you gave people great nuts, they were like, this is amazing! Like it wasn't a good time. Yeah. But also, after you eat those cereals being like, I still want a master, but you're like, I need to go to hell. I ate a bowl of... I'm recording you, Gareth. You know, either had great nuts or you licked a butcher's apron. So there's no, you know... Of course, great nuts seem like ambrosia at that point. I feel like it's a real either hook. Hot butcher's apron. Yeah. Licked a butcher's apron, by the way, is a great Y&T album. That's a great licked a butcher's apron. That was 1987, right? 1987, yeah. Licked a butcher's apron. And then a vinyl. It's so good. All right, well... Well, how do you feel emotionally? Honestly, not very good. Still very confused. Everybody has to go, but I mean, I cannot digest this. Shockingly! I am so going to be thinking about everyone in this room when I'm having breakfast tomorrow. Like, what are you all... I will think about everyone of you and try to sit there. You should maybe meet for breakfast. Oh, that you should. Who has corn flakes at home? There's a couple people who are throwing those out. How about grape nuts? Anybody have grape nuts? I guess that's a testament. I eat that Ezekiel's show where they just put Bible verses right on the bottom. Like, they let you know how psychotic it is. Like, we're basing our diet on things in the Bible. Like, well, that's for me. These are just crazy assholes putting stuff in boxes. I'll eat that shit. This is great. Box of psychosis. When you have your steward tomorrow, just go, I am eating pure sociopathy right now. New able flakes from Kilox. Thank you. Yeah.