 Hello, my name is Dave Anthony. Welcome to the dollop each week, sometimes twice a week. We do a podcast and it's about American history and I tell a story to my friend. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about. And how does he not? Well, he's dumb. That's not fair. I think it's true. No, don't perpetuate that fucking shit because that's what that crosses a line when somebody's just like, hey, the dumb one. No. Alright, he's smart. I just ain't read too many books. I ain't a book readin', but I lie no stuff. I don't read books, I read articles online. Oh my god, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one book. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling clots, Kelly. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No, I'm not gonna say that, my friend. No, no. Gary. Gareth, Gareth. Don't even move on without enough snub. You have a story that I would like to hear that happened to you. It's called an American History Story because it's about American Airlines. It's about travel, domestically and abroad. So what happened this week? Well, David, I went to England over the holidays to surprise my mother and see my family. And it was lovely, and I'd normally fly American Airlines. I'm pretty loyal to them. They're a shit company, but go ahead. Well, it's just, you know what it's like, though, when you start flying one airline, you're like, you know, you're kind of in the dumb relationship where you're like, you'll do, you know. So I put a ring on it. And so I flew over there, great. And then as I was flying back, and I guess I'm just dumb, as we established, and I didn't know that I would be flying British Airways back because I fly American. But I was flying British Airways. So then I flew back and I landed in Houston in the States. And my flight was leaving at like 9 p.m. that night. That's all I knew. So when I was landing, I was like, it's got to be like six, seven, you know. They were like, the local time is 1.30. I was like, what the fuck? I was like, what is, what? An eight hour layover. Because I've never heard of that. I just figured the machine would handle the idea that like three hours is probably great. That'll do fine. The eight is visit. Eight is you're hanging. Yeah. You're meeting Houston. Yeah. You're Texan. And so I got there for my eight hour layover. Yeah, good times. And they just kept delaying and delaying and delaying. So the eight hours is becoming 10. Well, it's all perspective, right? Because you're like, eight hours. Oh, that's going to be a pain in the ass. And then at like hour, you know, 14, you're like, God, remember when I hated eight hours? I'd suck a dick for eight hours right now. Those eight hours, those were the days. But then so they pushed, they pushed, they pushed. And then it, I just had the feeling like this is not going to end well. So I was hanging up near the counter and people were kind of like, what the fuck is going on? And this woman got on the PA and she was just like, she shouldn't have said this probably, but she was just like, we don't know what's happening. There's a mechanical problem. The mechanic literally just walked off and we don't know where he is. And everybody was like, what? And then they canceled it soon after. And then so I had to spend the night in Houston and then the next day. So what the fuck is that? So door to door from where, from the small town I was in in England to Heathrow, to Houston, to LA, to get my car to home, it took 37 hours. Holy fucking shit. Yeah. 37 hours, you're flying American Airlines. Man, it's just like, that's when you fit. That's when you feel the pulse of pride inside your veins. So if you're coming over from Australia, I'm going to recommend you don't fly American Airlines. Yeah. Gary, it's Gareth. The year was 18. Not good. 83. That's right where I want it. Okay. It's in the zone. Yeah. Young William Kennedy was born in Harlem. Okay. Harlem was supposed to blossom when the subway and railroads arrived. Sure. Having met a large agricultural community spec speculators read Harlem as an exclusive suburb for the white middle class. Well, and their vision held true. They built stately houses and Grandview Avenue's Oscar Hammerstein opened his Harlem opera house there in 1889. People thought shit was going to blow up. People were probably right. But the affluent middle class did not arrive as fast as anticipated or at all. And in order to survive and attract residents, building owners lowered their rents. The result was an influx of immigrants, East European Jews, Irish as well as African Americans. Not those are not immigrants, but. No. Yeah. Everybody gets one. Remember when you immigrated here? No. Fuck face. From just, I was in the Bronx. Just a white Harlem never took off. Shocking. Because that's what I feel like those are like peanut butter and jelly. Yeah. Stockyards alternated with gasworks. Modern brick tenements were erected alongside old wooden shacks to handle the waves of the poor. Among those poor was an Irish family headed by Larry J. Kennedy. Classic. Classic Irish name. Yeah. Larry. Yeah. Larry. LJK. Larry and his wife cranked out nine kids. Cranked, did they? If you're Irish, that's the law. You gotta move. You gotta just keep making a lot of your stuff. I haven't healed yet. Sorry it's time. Sorry we're going again. We gotta put more buns in the hot oven. I've got to put me cock in ya. Are you ready Marilyn? No. Here we go. Oh no. I'm hardly healed. Not again Larry. No. Fuck. Oh this is a cranking. Oh Jesus. Oh cranking Mark. Oh lord. Oh bye. Oh my god. It's worse than Comstock. Alright. Yeah I think we've been rude enough to that woman's vagina. William Kennedy, Bill was the second of nine children and went to work at the age of seven. I was so excited for the age and it really paid off. Seven. Seven. Seven. Alright dad it's time. Oh god the bus is up in my ass. Hey Bill what are you? Six seven. I'm seven dad. Alright. Time to earn your keep. Seven. Seven. Seven. Selling newspapers on street corners. Ugh. Right? Yeah. This is just good times. Don't worry about school. No. Don't worry about school. Nope. We're giving you a chance. The streets of Harlem. Extra, extra your lives fucked. Extra, extra I'm going nowhere. Extra, extra I'm seven. Extra, extra no laws. The streets of Harlem were muddy past clogged with cows and chickens when Kennedy was a boy. By the time Bill was nine in 1892 his father decided Harlem wasn't the place to be and moved his brood out to another frontier. Port Chester a tiny but bustling factory town in New York's West Chester County. Okay. Which I was just at on vacation. It's not. It's not that great. The chickens and cows. Well, well, well, Port Chester's, you know, there, LJ. Put that on the sign as you drive in. There LJ as he was known. Plight as trade as a bricklayer. Age, age eight. Yeah. Dad's a brick man. You're going to set up papers. He eventually became a somewhat successful contractor overseeing the construction and enlargement of factories, schools, hospitals and libraries across the region. So he's fucking, yeah, he's rolling. He's clearly connected to some Irish, Temony Hall, bullshit, getting, getting the sweet deals. Yeah, nothing. We'll take it. Nothing that my, my Irish ancestor did back then was, was above the table. It was all fucking potato bribing. Do you have the potatoes? How about the potatoes? LJ learned the trade from his father. And so he taught Bill and his brothers the way of bricklaying. Fascinating. You put a slap of fucking this shit here. Put it down there. And then put it down there. Okay. Grab another one. All right. Now do that to your fucking die. You're gonna. You're sure to go to school. Yeah. Bill took up the trial and went to work as an apprentice at age 13. He grew up on his father's building site. 13 years old. Yeah. He's, he's securing a sweet death at 24. Flying through cliff note in life. Yeah. He grew up on his father's building site. It's pushing heavy wheelbarrows full of bricks and carefully measuring and staking core lines where walls would begin wearing a cloth cap on his head and a button down shirt and tie under his work overalls. He, a tie. Yeah. It's such bullshit that they used to make you wear like a fuck your construction. Yeah. It's just bullshit. Oh, you can't look like shit when you're putting the bricks down. Oh, don't embarrass yourself in front of the martyr. Respect the bricks, boy. You treat every brick like a brick funeral. Christ sakes. Where's your fucking tie? Uh, you just have to work in tuxedos in a field. He would stoop over to pick up a brick from its pile, place it on the mortar bed and tap it in a place. Then stoop to pick up a new brick over and over a hundred times a day. I've been the dream. I've gone to America. The young Kennedy learned how to build walls, staircases, chimneys and walkways. And like his old man, he learned to cuss, chew tobacco and appreciate his union. Yep, sure. At age 14, he was the head of the union being the eldest. We want to be paid in chocolate. The union was the bricklayers and Mason's International founded in 1865, the oldest continuously operating trade union in North America. All right. Bricklayers. Yeah. Bill, as he was known, also learned to drink beer with the older brickies after work. The older brickies. Yeah, they call themselves brickie. I like that. Yeah, I'm a brickie. So he's just, I mean, this is gonna, I don't know where we're headed, but I like some of the details. The drinking, the drinking, like a construction worker at 13 is nice. It's a beautiful thing. His father, who was a noted tea totaler, yeah, was not pleased with the drinking. Wait, what's a tea totaler? People who don't drink. You never, they phrase, tea totaler? No. Yeah, so it means people who just don't, don't enjoy the beverages. Straight edge. Yeah, straight edge. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, now known as straight edge. Now known as straight edge. So the boring people. The cheerful bill and his hot temper father would fight over Bill's drinking often. Okay. Yeah, yeah, good places. Maybe butting heads with his father is what led Bill into the ring. Oh, yum. At 14, Bill began moonlighting as a prize fighter. Oh, okay. So just so we've summed up. Okay. By 15, he has lived more life than I have now. I mean, it must be strange for your life to literally play out as a montage for you. He's been selling newspapers. He's in a union. He's a bricklayer. He fights with his dad and he's a prize fighter. Oh man, you know what? 16 is going to be weird. And in this day and age, he couldn't drive yet. That's right. The death of his mother at 15 probably also made him want to punch strangers. Okay. So and his mother died at 15. So he's got it all. He's got he's right now. He's middle aged. Well, she saw she saw a sweet 33, which was far longer than was expected. I would have lived longer if you hadn't fucked me all the time. I think I'm dying from a broken vagina. For the next couple of years, Larry and Bill would struggle living and working together without the tempering influence of the woman that had held their head held them together. All right. So we removed. We removed the border. The motherly presence. Yeah. The bricks. Now it's just two bricks on top of each other. Oh man. You know what I mean? That should be a hallmark. Dude. Technically, the sport of boxing was illegal in New York, but the state's night 1896 Horton law created a loophole for private athletic associations to stage quote, fistic exhibitions of sparring. I mean, yeah, fistic. Yo, yeah. I love when the government carves out loopholes too. Oh, you're going to get your fistic removed. It's places like the Coney Island Athletic Club charge spectators admission fees, which they called temporary membership dues. It's a lot like marijuana here. Like a lot of it's like you donate. It's exactly. Yeah. Oh, you're a member of the club. Well, here you go. Here's how much you have to donate for your weed. Yeah. Gambler's then bet on the fights. Gambler's bet on the fights and boxes were paid under the table. Great. Shockingly, this led to rig matches between mediocre fighters and dirty promoters. I don't know how this all led to that. It seems so. No, yeah. And like such a good lie. Well, no, there's the other stuff. Only a lot of rules. I'm sure it sounds like there's a lot of rules. Boxing is illegal unless you do it in a private club. Yeah. Right. And you can gamble and whatnot and everyone gets paid in cash. All right. But ain't boxing. Okay. Now let's keep it. Let's get this boxing match started. Keep it straight. Oh, fucking around. Young teens like Bill fought on the warm up undercards, $3 to the winner, $2 to the loser. Whoa. Bill was the loser much more often than the winner. All right. Two bucks. Two bucks. That's fine. The big money headline bouts were pretty ugly. Quote, they fought not in a scientific manner, but with true slugging form. And the way they thumped each other made the spectators howl with delight. The police Gazette reported. The police. I'm a little overwhelmed with where to start. But first of all, who is who who fights scientifically? Um, scientists. Yeah. But I mean, that's the scientists get the snot kicked out of them when they fight. They're like, hold on. If I actually look at the angle, oh, God, my face. Oh my God. I used to love the scientific fights of Muhammad Ali. Oh my God. Yeah. When he was, yeah, tremendous. Yeah. He just have he just have a piece of chalk in his hand demonstrating. But then, okay. So and then the police Gazette, the police newspaper is reporting on the is reporting on the law side illegal the loophole fights. Yeah. But as like real journalism. Okay. All right. Continue. Continue to further end the quote. Maher be maher be his opponents bruised eye into a jelly like pulp. Yeah. Several fighters died during the Horton Law era. The matches attracted the cigar chomping derby clad gamblers who would be seedy characters and brawls and even riots broke out after some fights. Bill started to realize there wasn't a big future in the world of fighting and he hung up his gloves after a few years. However, it was in training for boxing that he realized he enjoyed running simply legging it up and down the paved streets of Port Chester and the dusty country roads nearby. But he stopped running as he entered adulthood because back then grown men just didn't run around for the fun of it. Like you could do it if you like. I'm training for boxing or if you just you just had to pretend you're being chased all the time. He's like getting closer. He's getting closer. Where the fuck are you going in such a hurry? I'm being chased. I'm running for fun. Where? Running for fun. Who the fuck runs for fun? He's done. I don't know. We just feel like you're being a little strange. We heard you were running for fun. What in the fuck happened to Bill? I see something the other day and he's running through the orchards. No boy of mine is out there running for fun. No boy. Christ you brought shame on our family. Oh you're goddamn running. You like running? Well why don't you run out of this house because there's not a bed in here for you anymore. There's a lot of tears is what there are. As the years went by Bill and his brother Joe increasingly enraged their father with their late night browsing. Finally, when Bill was 18 he and Joe who was two years younger hopped a train bound for the West. Perfect. That's planning. So 18 he's like I'm good to go and then he takes his 16 year old brother. Yep. Time you know living back then was a little bit different. Well I mean you definitely could follow Wim's. You could definitely like a lead was all you needed for anything. Nowadays you're like I don't have a job lined up. Then you were like that thing's going that way. Let's live there. The Kennedy boys were part of a great westward movement that took advantage of the railroads. They were hoboing sneaking a ride by train to a new town where they would then look for work. Back then hobos looked down on tramps who wouldn't look for work when they got to a town. American heritage defined the men this way. A hobo as a migratory worker a tramp as a migratory non worker and a bum as a stationary non worker. Oh that's the best. Look at you sitting and not working. That's like you're a fucking bum. You should be like my cousin Bill. He's riding around moving about working. Or at least like my other brother who's a tramp. He's at least moving around. He's at least going somewhere. He's at least going to see us. What the fuck are you doing laying there in the porch? I love that tramps are like well it could be worse. I mean I'm not a bum. I'm not laying about it. Look I agree. I hear you. I'm not a hobo. I'm just telling you things could be worse. Dr. Ben L. Reitman explained in this way the hobo works in wanders, the tramp dreams in wanders and the bum drinks in wanders. Oh but when you put it like that who do you want to be? The bum. The bum's got the fucking squee right. I walked into a wall. What are you going to do today? Get shit faced and walk. Why? Where are you getting at one of your fancy trains? Hobos were actually one of the builders of the west called into life by a very special set of circumstances. Hoboing started after the Civil War. The original hobos were all veterans of the Civil War. They were the answer to underemployment. As a hobo named Ren stated, do you know that this country couldn't exist without us hobos? The Northwest got to us. God they don't speak well. The Northwest got to have us guys work at lumber in the winter and then Oklahoma's got to have us work wheat in the summer and we got to get there quick or the crops spoil. So the hobos were like this fucking. The infrastructure. They were the infrastructure like they went wherever the work was. But John Tucker, who was president of the hobo college. Oh, whoa, whoa, pal. We'll get back to that. Alrighty, as long as we're putting a pin in it. He said the hubba goes forth from the crowded slave markets to hue the forest build and repair the railroads, tunnel mountains and build ravines. He is the labor that harvest the wheat in the fall and cuts the ice in the winter. All these men are hobos. Hobos is not a bad term. It's become such a bad term. It has the tramps of the bad ones. Yeah. If you took me on paper today, I would tell you the most the one I'd want to be would be a tramp. I'd want to be a find a nice lady. We need spaghetti. Yeah, but you're not working. So how are you making money? I mean, you're robbing people or you're how are you getting by? Give me all your money. Okay, see, there we go. See all the material is unnecessary back on the train. The hobo college went under in 1916. At Tuesday, April 16th, the Chicago Tribune reported. And by the way, I actually found this article. I found that, you know, when they it's like a picture of the lady, like a PDF of the of the. Yeah, yeah, I actually found the article of the hobo college closing down. Headline hobos college loses students. Chicago's hobo college has ceased to function. The great. The great hobo college has ceased to function. Doctor, what is that degree from? Oh, I went to school at hobo college. Now excuse me, I'm going to put a fish in this woman. Now show me that word so I can put a salmon in it. Warm weather has driven its students out of the city to seek jobs and the loafers who had no real interest in the college anyway quit when free lunch was discontinued. Coffee was the lifeblood of the college and doughnuts were the stuff upon which it existed. So when coffee and rolls were missing recently at a session of the public speaking class, the doom of the college was sealed. Oh boy. Yeah, they're like they have a bottom. There's no doughnuts. Fuck are we doing? I'm going to go lay down in the park. I'm going to go puking the park. Classes were held three times a week at 17 East Congress Street. On Tuesdays, the Reverend Erwin John Tucker instructed them in social economics. On Thursdays, Dr. John Cousins taught them sanitation and hygiene. Interesting that there had to be a class. Okay boys, today we're going to talk about washing your balls. Welcome to brushing your teeth. Now you probably hear I'm the tough brushing your teeth teacher I am. Okay. Kind of a hard ass. It's going to be a test. Just going to be a couple of tests and pop quizzes. Okay. Okay. First pop quiz can happen right now. What do you brush your teeth with? Soap. Nope. Each other. Okay. It's going to be a long year. Okay. Attorney George Waterman lectured on common law with special reference to vagrancy. Oh boy. I can't believe that college closed. It does not sound like real position. America was in the middle of an enormous transition as the nation underwent the shift from an agrarian economy to an industrial one. It was a period that also had rapidly increasing population, urban development and geological expansion as the frontier pushed itself westward. These conditions were of fundamental development to the hobo as with the expansion of the railroads growing from 30,000 miles in 1860 to 230,000 miles in 1890 and 254,000 miles by 1916. Nothing was more important to the hobo than the rails. The estimation of the number of hobos varies. A professor Holbrook suggested that in the 1890s there were 60,000 hobos. Also believed that the number of hobos in the late 1890s stood between 500,000 and 1 million. In 1934, the US Bureau of Transient Affairs estimated there were 1.5 million hobos riding. The conclusion is that it's really fucking hard to count hobos. Hard to tell apart. Cause you're not trying to count? Yeah. You can't count hobos. Wait, did you just get here or were you here before? Fucking. Oh my god, it's like y'all have the same hat. Sometimes I wish you guys were just bums. I really do. Oh look, you got a broken cigar too. Yeah. Okay. Oh cool, you've got a fucking handkerchief with all your clothes in it on a stick. Ah god. Oh boy. So the Kenney brothers lived this way for a while, then they made their way back to New York. Bill wasn't there for long. He went back out on the rails. He went hoboing. This time he left the city alone without his brother. Okay. Hobo solo. Hobos were likely to prefer boxcars, but they rode anywhere. A top cargo in open gondolas, among the livestock and cattle cars, on bumpers between cars, or in the empty ice boxes of the fruit specials. Oh my god. That just sounds horrible. I mean that just sounds so horrible. Just didn't think you were in there with all the pineapples. What are you going to do? I'm going to sleep near these cows and then get off and get work and I'll work. To avoid detection, Bill often went, helped often spent a whole trip riding the rods. Oh, just standing in between the... No, riding the rods is so much worse. Oh boy. Which meant hanging onto the brake rods or beams underneath the freight or passenger cars just above the wheels and track. Oh my god. This life was very dangerous. From 1890 to 1910, 32,276 hobos and tramps were killed on American railroads. See, we can get a count of that. It's just hobo corpses. Yeah, but that's like... Oh, that's a lot of dead people dying from hanging out under trains. That's like a war. Oh yeah, that's... No, sorry. That is a lot of dead hobos. Like they must have been like every 13 feet. Well yeah, I mean that's multiple... I mean that's so many a day. They must have just been like, God, Jesus Christ, there's so many dead fucking hobos. Is it raining hobos? Jesus Christ. It's just mere they multiplying. It's like they're born dead though. What's happening? It's like they're born full-sized dead hobos. I think some town is just dumping their hobos here. Throwing them off the trains. What if there could just be one guy who killed all those hobos? Oh god, yeah. And he'd just be like, they should stop hanging out under trains. They either died by falls or encounters with railroad bulls, also known as private security officers or other misfortunes. So those officers are just killing them. Oh they would just beat the living shit out of them until they knock them over the head with a little... Interesting policy. More than one met death when a mis-hold sent him under the wheels. More than one came to an end at the hands of an overzealous breakey or railroad bull or star to death when locked into a boxcar shunted into an unused building. Oh gee, what a way to go. What could you imagine? Oh I can't wait to get off in Fresno. Never been there. Ugh. Okay, train stopped. Oh. I guess I'm in a dark warehouse. Have you seen Into the Wild? That movie? I think I'll probably just die here over the next eight days. Well first I'm gonna eat this wood. First I'm gonna eat this wood. Many other hobos were maimed for life. Now imagine if 32,000 died how many were maimed? Like how many lost legs or heads? I was trying to live without a head. You meant Charlie doesn't have a head? When Bill was riding... Hard to get a head count. It was hard to get a head count. When Bill was riding a rod on a freight train pulling into Cleveland he fell asleep and slipped from the rod. Okay. I mean you can't have it all. What do you mean? If you're hanging under a fucking train... Right. Sorry you nap when you get to your destination. I agree you should not nap when you're... You don't nap when you're... If your life depends on you holding onto something you shouldn't take a nap. Yeah it's no time... It's just basic rules. Well and that's just... You could tell he's just getting too comfortable. I always thought that they... because when they show it in movies they attach their belt. Right. Yeah. He suffered severe cuts on his right arm but he lived. From then on he chose to ride somewhere safer like the feed box of a cattle car. He later wrote, you can't sleep very well with the cattle eating the bed from underneath you. Fair. Well lesser of two evils. Fair. But they're not going to kill you. No. And you're not going to fall off from your bed. Occasionally he would get off in a town to eat like at the free pretzels that saloons offered with a beer or sleep someplace stationary like a livery stable or a ten cent flop house. So this is just great. What a lovely life. What a lovely life. Yeah. What a dream. Living the dream. Yep. It's called freedom baby. Hey look man you're just napping wherever you can find and living on a diet of pretzels. Just pretzels and beer and then sleeping next to horses. Oh man. Now by. Simpler times David. There is almost always work for a good bricklayer during this period due to industrialization, population growth and urbanization. As a union member. Okay so he's still a union member. Yeah even though he's. So all these hobos are cruising out and they're like I'm a union man. Yeah. As a union member he get job leads as well as network so he rarely didn't have food or friends around. This was Bill's life traveling from coast to coast and from the north to the south. During a layoff on summer day in 1904 Bill went to a baseball game. He was drinking beer and sitting on a wooden bleacher seat when between innings a brass band struck up the popular song meet me in St. Louis. Oh no. He's like yeah. Bill thought what an awesome idea. I will meet you in St. Louis. This is how drunk hobos work. Yeah. It's destiny. It's the sign that came on. I'm going. That must be a move of St. Louis. I should go there. All right. Get a sleep with a cow. Got a handful of prescels. At 20 he decided to head for St. Louis which was then hosting the world's fair. It's amazing. It really is amazing when you're talking about this because he's aging a lot in my head. No he should be 45. Yeah. Okay. I quickly realized that St. Louis was his kind of town. First it was built almost entirely of brick. Hey. Can't hate that. We love just some brick. This was partly because of a city ordinance after a devastating 1849 fire and partly because of the region's rich clay mines. The city had about a hundred brick factories at the time. Jesus Christ. The era of the brick. If you're a bricklayer you're fucking. That's a lot of bricks. It's a shit load of bricks. It's a lot of bricks. It's brick heaven. It's a hundred brick factories. Also it was an exciting time to be in St. Louis with the world's fair going on. Bill's youthful love of athletics was sparked again while attending the 1904 Olympic Games which took place in the middle of the fair. Bill was really taken with the marathon race which was still a new sport. Although as long as it wasn't for fun. Right. No it's not for fun. All right. The 1904 marathon was marred by cheating, doping and other scandals. It would come a long way. It still went on to inspire a local version the following year the Missouri Athletic Club All Western Marathon. Catchy. Catchy title. Bill joined other enthusiasts of the new niche sport and started going for training runs on the outside roads of St. Louis. Some farmers were livid with the new sport. Of course. They were outraged that their daughters would see men dashing by in what they took as undergarments. Yep. That would be a very fair way of looking at everything. Perfect. He's running around in his underwear in front of my girls. My girls won't be able to focus because there's a naked man running. Look at him in his shorts. He's just showing it off. By 1907 Bill entered the Missouri AC Marathon for the first time. He finished in the back of the pack but was not deterred and he kept at it. Running was now his passion. In 1908 while in Arkansas working he beat a horse in a 10 mile race. Okay. Alrighty. So a couple of things. Yeah. You want to. That's a terrible horse. Okay. Yeah. That's one. I think I could find an earlier step. Two. Who set that up? Yeah. Who was like I can beat a horse. Who was like oh you're a runner. You're one of the runner guys. Why don't you take out my horse. Burt. I mean all the horses not like I need to beat this guy. Yeah the horse is like I'm going to walk. I'll run whatever I want to do. Oh I actually don't have a horse in this race. Yeah no I don't actually know what competition is. I'm a horse but I don't have a horse in this race. Yep. So I'm just going to watch. Alrighty. I can't imagine that it was a full sprint race. No. Yeah. That's like Fox had that fucking show like probably fucking eight years ago where it was like man versus beast and it would be like who can do more chin ups. A Navy Seal or an orangutan. An orangutan. Yeah. Because he was just like what the fuck and the Navy Seal was like 41. The orangutan was like my life is this. The orangutan is like also bananas. Yeah. I don't give a shit. 401 with my toe. So Bill continued to follow the bricklayer work wherever it was in demand. St. Louis remained his base. In 1909 he did something crazy and actually found a place to live. He put down roots and moved into the boarding house of Lizzie Herbert a mother with three daughters. The eldest of these was a pretty 18 year old redhead named Nelly. Oh boy. Bill was super into Nelly and she returned the feelings. Even though he was just five and a half feet tall. Well. Bill was described as picturesque. Oh all right. A courtship blossomed and the couple was soon engaged. All right. Time to crank out nine and die. Yep. In May Bill signed on with the St. Louis based CL gray construction company who paid union wages to build a convention hall in a neighboring state. Bill then traveled to Iowa that spring to help build the Des Moines Coliseum. She was going to be a buked. Sure. The plant called seem would take up an entire city block. Can you imagine. No. Wow. The size. Think about it. I can't even I can't even picture it. I don't have any idea. It would rise four stories high and hold up to 10,000 people. Hello. Well that's like ancient Rome. Overlooking the Des Moines River the venue would it in ensuing decades would host tractor shows corn growers conventions and speeches by four U.S. presidents. So there you go. A lot of great stuff in there. Yep. Corn. Come watch corn grow. Corn grow convention where you all come in together and you go so it's going on your corn. Good growing. How about yours? It's growing up. See you next year. Okay. Catch you around. Hey. Bill was one of 20 bricklayers to work on the building along with 30 carpenters and other tradesmen and laborers. On Thursday, October 21, 1909, the Coliseum was nearing completion. Under a clear blue sky, the bricklayers were standing on a narrow platform on the lower level of what was becoming a two tiered roof. Oh dear. Bill was scraping excess mortar from the part of the wall that rose above him and jetted farther south than the part of the roof holding his platform. This meant Bill had to grasp the wall with his left hand, lean over and stretch himself a bit out over the street. See, okay. Now, like even like I have a fear of heights and I can hear what like just hearing that gives me a weird. Weird feeling. Yeah, I feel like vertigo just from hearing that. He'll be fine. No, I don't like this. So he would reach up with to script the mortar with the trial with his right hand. This is why bricklaying was dangerous work and why they were one of the first unions. Just a couple of days before a fellow brick he had fallen to his death from a building just two miles away. Around noon, the breeze turned blustery. Oh, have fun up there. Use your one hand. It's going to be a little breezy today. As Bill pulled himself back into a standing position, a 30 mile an hour gust caught him and threw him off balance. Bill lost his footing and fell from the platform. The fall was 65 feet to the sidewalk. Well, I'm assuming that there's some sort of canopy he falls through to survive. Well, a month earlier, a city official had asked the sites foreman to remove some sidewalk barriers. He figured the work was almost done and a state fair was about to increase foot traffic. That's what allowed a tailor named John Holquist to find himself walking down the sidewalk past the Coliseum. When a 130 pound bricklayer landed on his head and shoulders. Oh, Jesus Christ, they totempolled. Bill drove Holmquist into the ground, snapping his neck instantly. Let's get all the good news out right now. Kennedy rebounded from Holcomb's body and landed with considerable force upon the sidewalk, reported the Des Moines news. Holmquist's body lay prostrate on the walk, eyes staring into the sun. He was dead, leaving behind a wife and five children. Bill was seriously injured. Wait, Bill was seriously injured? Yeah, he fell like, fell on a nice. He's not dead? No, he fell on a nice soft guy. Got a nice tailor. Tailors aren't like hardened. They just like a pillow. Thank God for that human cushion. Holy shit. There's got to be a lot of guilt that goes along with that. That's got to be weird to fall on another guy. Although in this day and age, I'm sure you're just like, well, lucky me. Sucks to be him. Oh, thanks for being there. Thank you. Thank you, my gushy friend. Hey, squishy, squish. By squishers. Bill was seriously injured, reported some papers, but apparently only stayed in Mercy Hospital for one week. I was just slightly hurt internally with no broken bills. Bone wrote later. Bill wrote later. Doesn't he sound like a drunk? It's crazy. He was in the hospital and was like, I got to get some whiskey. His bones intact. Bill returned to the Herbert's boarding house in St. Louis, only to have his heart broken. Nellie had moved out and married another man. It could have been the realization that he had a very dangerous job or the fact that a prickler had to spend so much time away, but either way, she decided to break it off. A prickler is like a comedian. But also this comedian just nailed another man into earth. Look, that guy was at the wrong place at the wrong time. He was there to save bricklayer Bill. Naturally this created an opening for Nellie's younger sister, Chessie. Your dad's dead because a man fell on him, kids. Your dad's dead and he's not coming back because a man fell on him. Oh, no, you can't see him. He's in half. No, he's honestly, he looks like he's just basically a statue. He's all concrete. We buried him in a hole. We put him in a bucket. Well, we really didn't have to do much burying. We actually brought him up a couple of feet because he was really down into the crust. We scooped him out. Naturally this created an opening for Nellie's younger sister, Chessie. Why go to a different house? You know what I mean? It's all right there. That is true. He still got married and he was like, yeah, I'll still stay here. Well, there's another door. I still got that room with the bed. Living in closed quarters again, their relationship suddenly became more intimate. In October 1910, Chessie realized. Sexually intimate? She was pregnant. Well, right. That's how intimate it was. Yeah. That's super intimate. That he finished. The couple are married on Halloween. He was 26 years old and she was what is now known as 16. They continue to live in her mother's house. The engagement didn't start well because Chessie complained that the engagement ring Bill bought her wasn't as big or fancy as the one he'd given her sister. This is why you got to leave the gene pool. Well, that's also the kind of thing that a 16 year old does. Yeah. So that's why you don't marry him. Oh, Mac, can you imagine his face when he heard that? He's like, oh, shit, she knows this. Here we go. Chessie did not soften with age. The couple remained together for the rest of his life and raised two daughters, but all indications are that it was a rocky marriage. Relatives and in-laws would remember Chessie as quote emotional, an odd duck, and a tartar. So she's an emotionally tartar duck. Fair. Fair. Fair. Fair. You've heard it a million times. Fair description. Yeah. She's classic emotional tartar duck. She's an ETD. Bill then stayed on the road as much as possible. Cool. That's what you do when you marry a tartar. Yeah. Or emotional tartar duck. Yeah. Yeah. Now, Bill wasn't just on the road for the sweet love of Brick Lang. He also went out for what is known as competitive running. He often took a Brick Lang job where there was going to be a race. He returned to New York to run the Yonkers Marathon in 1911. The next year he came in fifth in the St. Louis Marathon. His first time among the prize winners and close enough to have almost qualified for the 1912 Olympics. Wow. 1913 was a career year. In the space of 10 weeks, he won the St. Louis Marathon, the Chicago Marathon, and three road races of 9, 11 and a half and 15 miles. Finishing second another 15-miler, his Chicago win came during a deadly summer heat wave. The thermometer hit 98 that day and Kennedy lost 12 pounds during the race. What? He could not hang here in this day and age. No. He'd melt. Yeah, that's nothing. He lost 12 pounds during a race. He weighed five feet, five tall. He didn't have 12 pounds to lose. Did he start with a bunch of change in his pockets? He did. He had changed a couple of melons. I knew it. He was running with two melons. A sports writer cracked, not all the nuts are in the strong wards. So, he said, not all the crazy people. Right. Now, most Americans of the era still thought marathon running was a daredevil stunt rather than a sport. What is wrong with the species? How? Witchcraft. Look at that. Look, he's running a long way like some kind of miracle worker. You quit walking so fast, buddy. What's wrong with this one? Why don't you just jump nine horses? The races drew only a few dozen competitors. Cities wouldn't close off roads for the races, so the runners had to deal with horses, bicycles, and automobiles. Jesus Christ. They're just running. Yeah, just running through traffic. Yeah, they look like Rocky. Every, the whole life is just the Rocky run. Sometimes they had to stop the race for a train or a funeral possession. Jesus. You got to beat that train. I got to beat that train. I got to get in front of that train. During his running career, Bill was hit twice by cars. Okay. Not most runners say that. The conditions were a bit better in Boston, home to the nation's oldest marathon, first run in 1897. There are sports fans in the press, respected marathon runners, treating them as athletes, not lunatics. Bricklayer Bill now set his sights on the marathon's holy grail of victory at Boston. Unfortunately, in December, 2013, Bill was working in Chicago, Illinois, when a Typhoid fever epidemic broke out. It killed 276 people that year. Jesus Christ. Bill caught it. Oh, Jesus. In 13 weeks, he lay in Chicago's postgraduate hospital suffering from fever, delirium, headaches, and diarrhea. Then did he just give it to some poor bastard who was walking by and get better? I need a tailor. Yeah. Oh, no, I'm dying. I feel quite good. Quote, most people survived the bout with Typhoid, but only by the skin of their teeth, according to one study of mortality in Chicago. This is a time when people had skin on their teeth. Yes. Yeah. They did. Basically. Yeah. The typical Typhoid survivor was so weakened and compromised by the disease that he or she later would succumb to other infectious diseases like tuberculosis or dive kidney or heart failure. Typhoid survived it just to dive something else. It's the dream. It's great. Yeah. Typhoid's not going to get me. My organs are going to shut down. I can't wait till this shit's done shutting off. Bill was one who recovered, but he was also compromised and weakened. By the time he left the hospital, he was prematurely gray. Okay. So he got gray hair when he got Typhoid. Yeah. But, well, I mean, he's 30, so he's basically 70. Competitive running was out of the question. The Chicago Tribune wrote, quote, his battle for life has reduced Bill Kennedy to a shell. It is doubtful if the marathon star will ever be able to condition himself for another grind. As an added bonus, Bill now owe the hospital $500. He was flat broke. He had no health insurance and he was in no condition for construction work. But Bill was well liked and the bricklayers and amateur athletes of Chicago organized a fundraiser for bricklayer Bill. When the proceeds were tallied, he had enough to pay his medical bills. Lovely. All right. Yeah. Life is sweet. Yeah. What? This is great. Oh, everything's great for him. What a great life. Then one of the locals gave him a job selling sporting goods in a department store so that he could earn a living while taking it relatively easy for the time being. The name of the store was the Boston Store. Catchy. By 1950, 15 Bill was back in bricklaying shape. Great. Really, back to the dream of putting bricks in one spot forever. And occasionally falling and killing. And if you're lucky, killing a man. Despite warnings from most of the doctors at the hospital, Bill then resumed running. He started slowly but eventually worked his way up to 20 miles. In April, he applied to the Illinois Athletic Club, which he had joined before contracting Typhoid for expenses to travel to Boston for the marathon on St. Patrick's Day. But club officials wouldn't pay expenses for runners whose days of glory were behind him. They knew the toll Typhoid took on a body, saw Bill's gray hair and aged face and dismissed him as over the hill. You're done. No, I just ran 20. You're 24. You're fucking done. You're 24, you old piece of shit. You look like you're 90. Come on. You're 24. You look like you're 40. Jesus Christ. Which is 90. You make me sick. But Bill was like, fucked out about a week before the race. He wrapped his track suit and running shoes in a newspaper and with 30 cents in his pocket, climbed into a cattle car on the south side. I don't need no money. I was a fucking hobo. He traveled for five days. I want to say that someday. Mostly hoboing but occasionally paying a fare. He described a pit stop and a help. It's so funny to be like, I'm going to actually pay for this one. I'm going to be a citizen and not a hobo for a ride. Oh yeah. I don't want to ride with the cows. I don't want to ride with the people. It was the custom with musburies that an out of town visitor could sample their product. So paying my respects, I was the reception of four schooners of brew, my vitamins for the day. Yep. Every doctor or nutritionist would agree. Four beers a day and a handful of pretzels. I'm just having my vitamins. Yes. You mean alcohol? Yes. I'm a bit of a health nut. I like that. I like that. I like 20 vitamins. I'm on this new health kick. I'm full of vitamins. You got the cherry sauce. So he doesn't really know what a vitamin is. No. Bill arrived in Boston riding on the roof of a baggage car three days before the marathon and secured a brick laying job to pay his way back. He's there for three fucking days and he's like, I'll be a bricklayer and then run a marathon. It's insane. The next morning the Boston Globe ran a big feature with cartoon illustrations relating how Bill had thumbed his nose at his skeptical skeptical athletic club and made his own way back east. The Globe noted incidentally he abhorrs the idea of enriching the coffers of the railway magnets. He's a fucking hobo. Hobo runner. Right. They called him bricklayer Bill, but he should have been called a hobo runner. Bricklayer Bill instantly became a local celebrity. He only finished 15th in the marathon that year, but in 1916 he came in sixth. Okay. He was reared on by the Boston fans. He's a fan favorite. April 6, 1917, the US officially entered the war in Europe and the Boston Marathon held two weeks later turned into an especially patriotic day celebration with up to half a million spectators waving American flags all along the 25 mile route. The runners favorite to win were two Finns, one of them a 1912 Olympian gold medalist. The home crowd didn't want to see any kind of foreigner win at this of all times. Right. Yeah. That's a good thing. No, no, not that word. Word war. No goddamn forters. Foreigners can win. The Finns are on our side. No. No. We're crazy. We must repel the Finns. Bill told the Globe before the race. We must repel the Finns. Go get them. The Finns, Coru Noenin, Coru Noenin dropped out in Newton, where the runners dealt with a stiff East wind along with a cloud of auto exhaust and a McAdam dust. First of all, OK. All right, let's just jump to it. What the fuck is the last one? What is that? A wizard sneeze? It says McAdam, but I hope it was Mcadamia. OK. Am I in my auto correct? Just changed it. OK. The other way, it's just crazy dust. So so Mcadamia dust is a thing? In Boston, yeah. Look out. Mcadamia dust. This is where the nuts explode. Oh, look out. Walnut snow. Mcadamia dust. Here comes the almond mist. Here in Boston. Man, this weather's nuts. So Bill passed the last fin to take the lead just before Wesley College. There a young woman dashed out to hand him a full sized old glory banner, which he waved while running the next quarter mile. And then I guess he just threw on the ground. Yeah, he shouldn't have been like, get the sign trying to win. It's the fucking old glory. You can't. What's he going to do with it? He must have given it to someone. I look, I'd be like, I'm trying to win a fucking race. I don't want to wave this shit. Yeah. I'll be a patriot and win this fucking race that I'm too old to win. While Bill was still in the lead, he passed a construction site in Brookline and his brother, Brickie's, clapped bricks together in support. Anyway you can say brick a little more in that sentence. All right, Brickie's, get your bricks and get ready to get brickin' because old bricks is coming. Here it comes. Clap your bricks together. It's brick time. By the way, we have so many fucking bricks. Hey, Bricklayer Tom. Yeah. You see Bricklayer Bill coming this way? Yeah. Hey, Bricklayer Cliff. Yeah. You see Bricklayer Bill's coming. Yeah. Hey, Bricklayer Bob. Yeah. Then Bricklayer Bill wearing a homemade Stars and Stripes bandana beat the odds and finished first in two hours, 28 minutes, 37 and one fifth seconds. And that was, he did that in 20, 25 miles? Yeah, after he fell on a guy and then after he got typhoid, he then won the Boston Bandana. He then made his own bandana and won the Boston Bandana. Yeah. That's a man. Yeah. That's a man. Bill then volunteered with the Army's 23rd Engineers, a road building regiment. Quote, Bill is over the draft age and has a wife and two children, but he wanted to serve his country, read the globe. Jesus. And his wife backed him up and has resolved and to the race. Oh, sure. Yeah. She hated it. Yeah. Can I please get the fuck away from you? Yeah. You tartar. Yeah. You fucking duck tartar. You emotionally duck tartar. Bricklayer Bill reported for training at Camp Mead in Maryland in December 1917. Five months later, Bill's company landed in France. He remained in France throughout the war and a year after it ended, finally returning home in December 1919. He became a Bricklayer's Union president in Mississippi County, Arkansas. Okay. But it was not a good place to be a Union man. And after a few lynchings and watching the KKK gain power stoking fears against labor unions and alcohol, he got the fuck out of there. Yeah. Roll. He moved back to Port Chester and worked with his father and brothers again. Jesus. He co-founded the Port Chester Marathon. In 1927, he finished third in the Boston Marathon and he continued to run in the Boston Marathon every year. Quote, sometimes they ask me why I don't give up marathoning. He said in 1941 when he was 57, I always tell them I'd rather give up bricklaying. Honest. I get more tired laying bricks than I do running these things. I love that this was a time when that would be like a shocking comparison. Yeah. No shit. Yeah. No shit. Oh, I believe it. You're going to think I'm crazy, but I'd rather run than just constantly put bricks on top of each other. No, really? Yeah. I know. I sound nuts. But, I think in my profession, I would rather be able to run and just soak in nature than just stand and pick up bricks forever. So you don't enjoy the joy of bricklaying. You don't. Look, I love the monotony of picking up the exact same shape over and over again and just placing it on top of another shape. So... So you're going to run tomorrow? I like to run. He ran a total of 29 Boston marathons in his life, 107 marathons in total. Jesus. On May 10, 1959, it was reported Bill had died. But that was not true. A reporter found him alive and well in St. Louis where he was taking 5 to 10 mile walks a day at the age of 75. Who is the first reporter? I don't know. I'm just going to assume that he's dead because I haven't seen him in a while. Well, these stories get out. Yeah, it's him. Bricklayer Bill is dead. That's how you found out. Hey son of a bitch. But there is no record of his death that I actually could find so he may still be out there. How old would he be? Oh, he'd be pretty... He'd be 100. 100 and some odd years old. He's probably the oldest man alive. 200 he probably is. But we can't say that he's definitely not alive. God, I hope that 200 year old man is still out there running. So that's a man. That is a man. That's a real man. A guy who falls on another guy and then gets typoied and then wins a marathon is pretty important. He falls on a guy. He fell on a guy. God was like, no, you're going to win the marathon. Yeah, this guy's a loser. I don't want a guy to fall on me. You've laid... Oh, God. Because there's no... You at least want... I would rather have a second to process that I'm going to die. You don't even have a second if a guy falls on you. Yeah, but dude falls on you. You're not... You could not be more comfortable. How often are you looking up to see if dudes are falling on you? I do that a lot now after reading the story. Yeah, well, yeah. Since yesterday I've been doing it quite a bit. Although we're going to be doing that about drones, I guess. So that's the new... Yeah, drones are... That's the new guy falling on you. That's the new bricklayer drop. The new brick... Oh, God. Another guy... You know, the guy got killed by the bricklayer. That's what they're doing is the drones are just dropping bricklayers. Oh, shit! Get cover! Just landing into bricks. Well it's bricklayer Bill. Well, it's a pleasure to meet him. Not a sad story. No. I think he... No, this is actually... I think we can say that this is a feel good dollop. This is a feel good dollop. Yeah. Yeah, I did a feel good one. So infrequent. Yeah. The next one might be a feel good one too. So the next one will be... We're going to put up the Will Anderson Live at LA PodFest one on Saturday. So that'll be the next one. That'll be good. Do we have anything to announce or anything else? I think we're all good. Yeah. Yeah. Nothing. I got nothing. Okay. Oh, you know what? Please... A guy from iTunes sent me a thing and said, hey, you actually should leave reviews. It does help you out. So go leave an iTunes review if you like the show. Yeah. Apparently it's a good thing. Yeah. Subscribing your phone. Yeah, and subscribing your phone and we're on Facebook, the dollop and we're on Twitter, the dollop. Active communities on both. Yep. Active communities. People are really talking to each other. It's a great, great, great album cover that I put up on the Facebook page. Oh, God. Yeah. And then the Photoshop. Well, that's the Reed Parker Photoshop. It's fucking amazing. Yeah, that guy. I mean, Gary, the guy had called himself Gary. Yeah, no, I know. And you know what's funny is that that was not the first time I've seen that. Really? Yeah, someone else had sent me that before. All right. Well, this turned out to be a full dollop as opposed to a small. Small up. Well, that's what happens when you get into brick laying and hoboing. Yeah, that's what happens when hobos fall from the sky. God damn it. It's raining hobos. How about a new sign off? How about we say... Nope. Just go. We love you. Nope. We just leave. Love and hugs and kisses from Gary and Dave. God damn IT.