 I'm like, I'm the last guy. I won't walk down a fucking dark alley. I'm a fucking coward. But there's something about walking up to phalanxes of angry cops where, you know, that's that's just the thing I do, which is probably really fucking stupid. And it's making me fucking insane. Because what's happening right now has been coming for fucking ever. And it's the kind of thing that like when I sort of stop and I, you know, sit on top of my, my, my, my hill in my ivory tower and, you know, smoke my gal was and ponder fantasies of the future. This day is going to come. And every time I have seen this day coming, I'm down there in the fucking crowds and I can't go now because I'm an old fat guy and I'm responsible for my mother-in-law who's even more at risk than I am. And it's just like, it's fucking frustrating a shit sitting inside and watching that stuff knowing not just because you want to be there, but, but knowing that the whole point of being, you know, of having a fucking fat privilege white body is to be able to stand at these things with people who don't to help diffuse the situation and keep them safe and also to bring more eyes onto it for people who, you know, wouldn't otherwise pay attention. So it's, it's, it's frustrating, Dave. I'm fucking frustrated. I, yeah. So I, I, I think that the government may have collapsed by now. If we could go outside, I think every person on the streets, there's four or five that are not. And I think that that's the only thing saving the government. But I got to say this as a white guy who was fairly left in, in fairly right communities. I was beaten by the cops. I, I, in college towns, when the cops riot, they beat the living shit out of white kids. And, and I had, you know, my friend's arm was broken in front of me. cops. I don't, I don't like five or six people during riots where cops kicked in people's doors and went into their bedrooms and their kitchens and just beat people who were doing nothing. So, so I've sort of, I guess I have a different viewpoint. I'm watching all these white people just like, Oh my God. I'm like, Yeah, that's what they are. That's what they've always been. Well, but I would also say you're looking at this happening in Salt Lake City and Fargo and all these places. There's an awful lot of, look, one of the things that happens is messages get simplified for political reasons and they should, and I'm about to enter sort of treacherous turf by even saying this, police disproportionately brutalize African Americans and probably African American males. But they also brutalize poor and working people. And what's amazing to see in that, that message, you know, and the media and the establishment are happy to go along with the narrative that it's just racism, because it's a much more comfortable pill for them to swallow than to deal with class issues or with the idea that, you know, working poor people of all colors might actually have something that bonds them together. It's always worth reminding people that they didn't kill Martin Luther King when he was marching for civil rights for African Americans. They killed him when he started his poor people's campaign for everybody. That's the shit that scares them. And that's why they immediately killed Fred Hampton because Fred Hampton was bringing them Latinos and the poor whites and the blacks, the working class of Chicago, he was uniting all of them until he had to be stopped immediately. That's why they kill people. And when I see liberals screaming about agitators, I want to fucking choke them. That is old school KKK fucking government slave owning bullshit. They are trying to divide the poor. But the great thing is, though, it's a combination of things. We'll talk about this. But one of the amazing things about the way this is happening all over the country is it's just really hard to get people to fall for that notion that these are out of state agitators because the notion that like, you know, New York agitators are coming to what, to California, while California agitators are going to Washington, DC, and Washington, DC agitators are going to, it's like, no, man, there's too much of it. There's too much of it happening. And it's, it's, you know, you can't get the agitator thing works fine when it's Ferguson. But it's just Ferguson. You can sell the idea that when there are marches getting gassed in Fargo, you have a fucking agitator problem. I also yeah, what kind of agitators gonna have to go to Fargo and start some shit. And I love, I love, I almost got it. It's, it's exhausting every now and then I engage with our old friend Louise Mench on the Twitters. It's always a hoot. And it's always invariably just exhausting because she's just out of her fucking mind and, and completely full of shit. So, you know, you're never going to reach someone like her with reason. But it was so fun watching it. Who was it? Susan Rice talking to Wolf Blitzer last week about how this is straight out of the Russian playbook. And then that idiot, Joy Ann Reed starts retweeting the stuff for a day like, Oh my God, and then the stuff about how was it? They came out and said that everybody who got arrested Minneapolis was from out of state. And she's like, Ah, then, then Louise chimes in with joy and like joy, I don't normally agree with you, but I'm so glad we got each other's backs on this one and these two fucking grifting imbeciles just just throw in that bullshit out there, which of course the next day. So I came out and I was like, Oh yeah, actually, that was a mistake. Almost none of the people arrested me. We're from outside of the state. But just the notion of leaping on that the idea that Russia is doing this, this is what happens when you just feed people nonstop stupidity for years. And, and this is why like, you know, knuckleheads like you and me have been screaming about it forever. And it's like, this is that there is a downside to it. There is harm that comes aside from believing something that bullshit, there is harm that comes from, from allowing such aren't garbage into your head. And then from embracing all of these like David from types and idiots. And we're seeing it though, those people now have a position in a party. They're now they're, they're endorsements of Joe Biden now carry something with Democrats. And there are now people who actually fucking believe, I don't think there are many that actually believe it somehow. Like what's the idea? Is it like our, our, our, our, our colors are all pretty docile until Russia comes here and fills their heads with, I mean, what kind of fucking idiot thinks that would be happening if it weren't for Russian involvement? But again, now you go back to the old school shit. I mean, the KKK would literally try to say the communists are infiltrating our black guys. Like that they would literally fucking say that and they would go in and these white guys would go warned the black guys to stay away from these white guys because they're communists. It's the same fucking shit. It's just liberals doing it in a different way. You're dividing the people that need to unite. And the reason that liberals want to divide them is because if they are united, what liberals have goes away. Yes. Then you have an equal society in which the masses get taken care of and that is not what liberals want. It's, it's so bonkers and it's such a fucking insane week. The, and of course the West Wings. What do we like? Is he the favorite son of the West Wing? Mr. President Barack Obama. He, I would say he is, he is one of, he is one of the greatest products of the West Wing is. Yeah. But did you watch his, what was it, was a fireside chat or something? You know what? Not only did I not watch it, but I know it was announced and then I thought it would be a big thing and it, nobody talked about it. It was almost ignored. Yeah. Well, one of the things, you know, we've, we've bagged on, you know, I've, I've expressed my theory in the question of like, how come with all those great speeches? And you know, I was there, I heard plenty of them, my heart's soared. How can we can't ever remember a single line from one of them? Yeah. And we have bagged on his writers, you know, the Pod Save John's. You had a question about them earlier this week when I bring up too, but, but I got to say in defense of the Pod Save John's, Obama without them writing for him is, is even less memorable. It was just, but here, no, I've got to, I mean, I brought a clip from it. And I think we have to give them credit. My understanding is, is you've got some of the same organizers now going back into these communities to try to clean up in the aftermath of a handful of protest, a handful of criminals and thugs who, who tore up the place. Oh wait, I'm sorry. That was him after Baltimore. That was Baltimore? That wasn't Ferguson? No, it was Baltimore. Everybody thinks it was Ferguson. It was Baltimore. Here, here he is. Here's the, oh no, this actually, this isn't it. I, we, normally I check this stuff with you, but I figured it'd be okay with it. I checked with a, an expert in this kind of thing and had him listen to the entire Obama conversation and then just sort of break it down to its basic core message. And he translated it for us. But you also had people that were very fine people on both sides. You know, obviously he speaks much better than that idiot and can form coherent sentences and, and sounds compassionate. But at the end of it, you're just, I'm waiting for the one moment. It's like, if you don't acknowledge that one side in this particular engagement carries, let's just say the overwhelming majority of the responsibility for this situation, if not all of it, you're fucking both sides in it. And if you won't come out and go, yeah, this is that and the other thing, but you know what the real fucking problem is? We're, we're policing wrong. Our cops are wrong. We're doing it fucking wrong. And those are the wrong people for the job. And we need to address this problem. But to pretend that I, you know what, there's a few bad ones. Is that it? Is it like in the system doesn't quite work and doesn't know how to accommodate these few bad ones? I turn the TV and I watched it. It wasn't yesterday. Today, the, the, the where was it? The cops just knocking over the old guy and just marching past them. Oh, and then shooting a homeless guy in a wheelchair to shooting a home. Yeah, in the face. Yes, with a rubber bullet. And, and then we find out the cops who knocked that guy over. A few of them got suspended and then 50 some of their fellow officers, all resigned in solidarity with them. So these are, these are, it's yeah, a few bad apples for fuck's sake. We need to pressure the, the union, uh, AFL CIO to get rid of cop unions that just get them the fuck out, get them the fuck out. They should not be representing. Look, the fucking cops beat up, beat up union guys for decades. Why the fuck would you have a union with them? Jesus Christ, get them the fuck out. Uh, as you know, look, caught, uh, I really think people should read the end of policing. Um, just read some articles about abolishing the police. And when I first heard it, I thought it was crazy. I thought it was just literally insane, but then you read about it and it makes more sense than what we're doing now. It makes far more sense. Uh, what we're doing now is near, very near to worst case scenario. We're allowing our police to do what they want and that's been going on for a long time. And now they're not, now their oppression is not just turned on, uh, people who have a dark skin, but it is turned upon the whites who stand next to them en mass. It's not a small thing. This is across the country. 100%. They are beating everyone that stands together. And that's, that's what a failed state does. Yeah. Um, it's interesting that, uh, you know, I was just reading a professor on Twitter talking about a failed state and this is how a failed state operates when it has nothing left to give the people. Uh, it can only respond with brutal force to keep them under foot. And, and this, this episode of the West Wing is sort of fascinating because, Is you just segue to the topic of our show, Dave? Well, yeah, because I was watching, you know, there's, there's two things that they're arguing over, uh, the national arts endowment and it's, it's $105 million that this, this Republican congresswoman comes in and she wants to get rid of it and, uh, Toby is arguing for it. And I'm just watching it and part of me is thinking, well, this is so quaint. Remember when this thing, because, you know, the national arts endowment argument went on for a very long time. I mean, it really, it really kicked off with maple for which was 1990, I think, or maybe even earlier. That's when it really, really caught hold and took fire. But essentially that argument has been eliminated and the left lost. Yeah. Well, we'll definitely get into that because I got some choice stuff. Do you want to do your, I know it's really important. It's not, it's not the show if, uh, Oh yeah. You're listening to the West Wing thing with Josh and Dave. Yeah. It's a West Wing Thing It's a West Wing Thing West Wing Thing Are you ready to look at our center? Cause I'm ready to look at our center on the West Wing Thing That's hilarious! Fifteen minutes in? Can I, can I, can I, before anything else? I just want to, I want to give one tiny before we, before we dive into, cause we discussed all this trivial shit about the important, the important stuff. Should be, I hope we get this right, probably Friday, this coming Friday ever after this comes out. Didn't, I think, I think insane times demand stupid shit, sometimes. And there's a little, a little project it's really, really fucking ridiculous that I sort of lashed together with the help of my friend, do you listen to the dollop, Dave? No. It's a good podcast. There's this really funny guy Gareth and then this other clown reads him history and he's funny. And we got those guys and then we got a couple of our friends from Chapo Trap House Will and Matt and then our own Diesel Boots, Colin McCoy, and I, we're doing a thing. I'm not even going to say what it is, but it's a really, really stupid fucking thing that has like no political content actually has no reason whatsoever to exist. Should be coming up Friday. It's for a good cause and it's the dumbest thing you've ever seen and you'll know when you see it. That's all I'm going to say. Hey, hey, hey, hey, let's go play. Hey, hey, hey, hey, let's go play. So, yeah, let's get into, let's go to our favorite TV show. Let's just talk about the, because I think there is a, there is one thing that on this show, they're living in a time that is very different than ours and this fight over there, National Town at the Arts, but it's sort of a great, a really spectacular example of exactly how the Democrats and Republicans completely ignore class and fought over things that really at the end of the day did not matter in comparison to the class issue, to the suffering of the masses. It was- Well, it's one of those interesting things. Yeah, you're completely right. Because look, I was and am passionate about the arts and government should fucking fund the arts. And in this conversation, we need to have, or we should, in a sane culture. There's a lot of issues like that. And they were used very adroitly by the right, but the left was willing to go along and sort of play the game with them to keep us focused on shit that didn't address the root causes of the problems that this country faces. But as somebody who cared passionately, as passionately as you can care about something happening to a community that isn't yours, my sister is gay, or my dearest friends is gay, none of that should matter. I live literally blood on the concrete over gay marriage. It was an issue that I was involved passionately in fighting for. It was- Nothing made me happier than when my sister and her wife, Susan, was in fact being on the show, Susan Sacks, could actually legally get married. I think I wet like a fucking baby. And let's be real, that is not a fucking issue that we should have spent five minutes having to talk about. Because who gives a shit? It's a no brainer. Like you ask any seven-year-old who hasn't thought about it for five minutes, should gay people be allowed to get married and their response is, yeah, why are you fucking asking me this shit? And the reason you're asking me this shit is so that I'm not focused on economic issues. That's right. And that's it. But all this stuff, it's a beautiful battleground that, you know, I'll give them credit. I don't think they all colluded consciously, but the right started focusing on this shit and the left was happy to go along with because it made them look good. And then nobody actually had to address the root causes any of these fucking problems. And then you also lose the other aspect of it, which is if you spend, you know, I mean, Jesus Christ, how long was the fight for gay marriage fucking decades or whatever? Jesus Christ. You're spending all that time on that. And if you're, if you're ignoring the economic issues, well, guess what goes away immediately with fascism? Gay marriage doesn't fucking mean a thing if there's fascism. None of this, the none of this shit, the, the National Endards Arts Endowment doesn't mean anything if there's fascism. Abortion doesn't mean anything if there's fascism. Nothing means anything. Everything you fought for is wiped clean immediately. And so, And if you fight and successfully get back to the old system, now you got to fight all those fights all over again. Yes. And, and then you, it's just this horrible fucking cycle. So, so it really struck me just watching this episode, particularly, you know, today, you're just sitting there. Are we heading in towards a fascist state, which is something that happens very abruptly. If you read anything about Pinochet, about two months they had stadiums full of human beings. All leftists were rounded up starting in September and by November, the stadiums were full. You know, this shit comes really fucking quick. So you're sitting here, it's very jarring to sit here and, and, and be like, what do I do? How can I protect my family? All that shit. At the same time, watching a television show in which they are arguing about $105 million over the National Arts Endowment. Very weird. Well, and also in their typical West Wing way where nothing is ever particularly resolved. Yeah, nothing, yeah, nothing was resolved. It came across that the woman, the woman who came in with this and I, please hold, please hold her name. She's a congresswoman. Her name is Tony Cryer, which is like as close as Eric Sorkin has ever come to concoct me a character named Pussy Galore. Oh, holy shit. That's amazing. I did not catch that. So, yeah, she's got all these specific reasons of why this artist shouldn't be funded and this artist should be funny. I just, I got a clip. I got a clip. I just went funny. How about she describes all the art that upsets her and offends her. Tony. Throne by Rainne Billings, a photographer from North Dakota whose work consists of polaroids of his dysfunctional family in the bathroom. Yes. One horse, two horse by Mark Maloney. He calls himself an installation artist. Did your committee? What it is is two big screen TVs side by side, one of them with footage of black stallions running in reverse, the other one showing the godfather. Tony. Tony is a one word poem by Jules Waltz. It's stamped in scarlet on a piece of 40 by 40 black canvas. Here's a woman who gets naked, covers herself completely in chocolate and sings. Does that appeal to you? By and large, I'm not wild about musicals. They're all projects funded by Okanwood during his chairmanship of the endowment. You're dissolving the endowment to give more money to national parks? Hold the lettuce. Lydia Benedict's two bacon cheeseburgers were constructed from pieces of burlap and rottweiler dung. It's not me. It's the committee I work for. Here's the fun thing. The fun thing is that Terence Horken making fun of all the Terence and Philly and all that. He's joining in. I want to read Slott in its unexpurgated form before I come to the decision. As soon as you said a guy who takes polaroids of his dysfunctional family, I'm in. Show me that art. It's fucking great. Where is that amazing? What a great idea. It turns out if you don't like art, you don't like art. I don't give a fuck about you. I don't give a fuck about you. But all these things sounded intriguing to me. I want to see them all. I like art because it makes me think. Sorry. Yeah. It's just the same argument. But again, this is- It's over by the way. Yeah. Go ahead. It's really Aaron Sorkin giving the right, the meat, and the argument that should immediately be shut down. Giving it this amount of airtime is doing a disservice to your own side. A great disservice. Correct. And it's vile because he always fucking does this with this kind of shit. You know what's frustrating is, again, we go back to the one great- Everybody's favorite team from the West Wing, where Aaron Sorkin did not conceive, when the president dresses down the Dr. Laura character and demolishes her. And cheaply satisfying. But left to his own devices and without somebody's great internet meme to crib off of, he can't do that here. And it would be lovely to see him use that same hammer on this person that he does on Laura Slashjer. He does because Sorkin thinks this stuff's absurd too. That's right. Aaron Sorkin is one of those artists who never struggled. And you know, some guys just get lucky. He got lucky. He wrote a play for Broadway. Everybody loved it. And then he took off. I mean, that's literally what fucking happened with this guy. He was super young. He took off immediately. So he doesn't believe in artists who struggle. He's not- And he's explicitly stated many times in words and action that he feels no kinship with artists. And he won't stand without fellow artists or writers when the shit comes down. So yeah, why not? He just sits outside and laughs at them. Yeah, he sits outside and laughs at them. And he thinks they're pathetic for wanting money from the government. He's a guy who hit the lottery. And people who hit the lottery don't think, well, what about a struggle? I mean, someone who just dedicates their life to poverty and art is astounding to me. Like you are amazing. You're an amazing human being for doing that. Even if your art sucks, like, I mean, my God, look what you're fucking doing. You're dedicating yourself to something that you enjoy and think has meaning. Like you're more- And you're not taking jobs from people who actually want them. Yes. I mean that sincerely. I'm all for expanding the NEA massively. Because if you would rather be a ballerina than a coder, I'm happy for my tax dollars to go to ensure you don't have to be a coder. We have plenty of those. But what's interesting to about this is, this just reminded me of a fun fact. Do you remember? Because obviously he's referencing Karen Finley and, yeah, Maple Thorpe and that whole thing. And there was that case, the NEA-4, which made it all the way to the Supreme Court. The NEA ended up, I think it was a circuit court ruled against them. The NEA stopped funding individual artists and then they took it to the Supreme Court, which ruled 8 to 1 against the artists. It's worth noting David Souter was the dissenter. You know who voted with the rest of the court against the artists? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, it was all a dream. It was all a dream. Yeah, you know me. You put us in a cave when I was when I was putting out my notes. I had never heard that before I didn't even know it existed. I was like I guarantee you if I just Google notorious RBG I will find some ghastly ghastly white wrap And low and behold Yeah, Ruth Bader Ginsburg What one of many reasons? People are losing sleep lately is you know, she was she wake up. She was too selfish to retire when Obama was president Yeah, look, she's she's always been incredibly pro-business. She's pro He's pro monopolist. She's a racist Let's just be honest. She just doesn't have black clerks working for her. She's oh Oh, she's just she's not great. Oh, hey, either do we That's true So, you know, yeah, that's I'm not surprised at all to hear that she voted that way He's I mean the problem with all the demo Democratic And I would say not all but most of the Democratic choices for the Supreme Court is that they are all pro-business which brings us back to the point made earlier if If if fascism comes nothing else matters So if you put you can put as many Supreme Court justices on that are pro Pro-abortion, but if fascism comes what they said doesn't mean shit And that's the same same with this right, you know, she's a she's a pro-business Judge, yeah, of course. She doesn't give a shit about the NEA and how yeah It's So what what happened at the fair end of this she yes she this this Congresswoman wants to put the money from the national Endowment to the arts to security for the national parks national park security Okay, and then it turns out she wants something else Which I believe is she wants to get rid of the head of the committee of oh, no, I get rid of the head of the Yeah, yeah, who's this head of the NEA? That's all she wanted she wants to get rid of the head of the NEA and it sounds like that's what's agreed to Right. Yeah, we never go back to it. So they're just gonna she wins this battle. There's no fight I was hoping I was hoping that there was was a point where Toby would have a realization of Oh my god, we can use this in the campaign We this can issue for us Yeah, but that now that again here. We are back in that fucking same thing you have a show about a Democratic president but you never have Them actually making and pushing for stuff that matters and they don't like he knows and he makes the argument that art matters But then he backs off of everything he believes in Right and and get rid of the head in this case the Republicans have all the fucking power apparently Right, nothing that can be done because this congresswoman has this thing She wants done so she gets to kill the head of the NEA and I would assume replace him with someone that she wants Which would be more right wing which is what happened to the NEA which is what happened to you know everything PBS and Everything that was good about America Yeah, yeah and classic West Wing fashion nothing nothing nothing good comes out of it the Yeah, let's let's actually let's Yeah, and let's talk about Republicans of the West Wing since you're sort of there because it's another I'm trying to tie these together sort of in my head the yes, these are the these are the awful people Who are up against and we've had to take this loss now because of them But the radiance they're stupid people that keep eating us Which is actually interesting. It's a thing that keeps having the actual Democrats There's a plot in this episode about the I guess the majority leader has is going to run against Bartlett and And there's a big piece of news comes out here. We've got we've got a clip We've got a clip He got the question the majority leader last night local news Cleveland, Ohio Oh, me oh my oh Cleveland, Ohio. He got the question. What's the question? Why do you want to be president? And what do you say? The reason I would run where I to run is I have a great belief in this country as a country and in this people as a People that go into making this country a nation with the greatest natural resources and population of people educated people I'll spread it around Too sexy for my shoes too sexy for the blues to sex So they all have lots of laughs. I want a stupid answer that is and yes, sorry. It's a stupid answer Yeah, no, nobody nobody it says oh me oh my oh nobody That's not that should never be anyone's no one should know what you have that in dialogue anywhere It's not a thing unless it's a completely fantastical world of fiction That is not at all base in reality. No one should be saying oh me oh my oh Yeah, I just I just Google it it just seems to be I don't know I don't I All the references here to the West Wing is that something he made up? I assumed it was some sort of shitty Broadway reference from 1943. That's what that's what I thought it was but I would imagine You know speaking of it. We'll get back to this because I have but I just speaking of music There's this whole fucking weird thing with CJ and the Do I write said Fred probably the greatest just straight rock and roll band of all fucking time just whip snorting I thought mother fuckers. I saw right. I saw right said Fred open for ACDC. No shit So you were you were in the wait said Fred before it was coolest thing. So yeah, right? And they're fucking just they're called arms man. It just dwarfs anything to clash or rage against the machine. Yeah, I'm To see CJ has he has heard this song and hold on you're missing you're missing something here See they walks into her office with her assistant and right said Fred is playing Yes, Josh Yeah, no pop song has ever played on this show It's never been just music playing. It's not something that ever fucking happens It's not why is there music on right now? It's just let's go into a right said Fred conversation Right, and I will now surmise why I like and really part of the heart and I think she should be a stand-up comedian That's current sorkin truly believes that he could have been a great Stand-up comedian and this is the most hacky shit stand-up comedy bit That has ever been on this show and it is fucking repulsive just going into this dialogue about right said Fred Fuck off. You are not a comedy writer Get the fuck out of my corner go the fuck away. It is This might be the worst thing that's ever happened on the show and Just for those of you at home here it is now. What's this song about? This is I'm too sexy Yeah, for sure. He's too sexy other things to you list them Yeah, well, I think he's feeling good. I think he's feeling sexy too sexy. I Think it's the kind of thing where someone says oh, this is just too good. I probably Yeah So it's not a problem. It's not a song about somebody having a problem No, he's feeling good. That's why he's singing. Okay. It's just shitty stand-up. That's all it is It's just shitty stand-up. That's all Anyway But back to Back to no, cuz I you know Why is there music playing why is there suddenly music playing cuz he heard it in his car and he had a thought is fucking head That's not how you write. Oh, just go and put it on your fucking my space page I just I you know look I will say this I would if I were had a TV show where I could write any fucking thing I wanted every week. I I can't say I would turn into the same Fuck it ass That's why you have a writing staff You know, I mean I was the last show was writing on deadly class the showrunner goes. Hey, man I need a scene. I just need to be interesting and about something Weird and I'm just spent I don't want to write another thing about in this area And so I went off and just started researching Japanese philosophy and came up with this thing about a red string that I didn't know about And it was I just read about this thing for a while and then I gave it to me He's like fucking perfect, but that's what you do You give it to a guy who's sitting in an office getting paid to write for you that you hired Sure, but he thinks whatever that writer come up with in in eight hours or whatever What he shits out when he shits out in a wet fart is gonna be better. He literally thinks that I just see him running into his office. It's like mr. Sharkin. Here's your coffee. Not now. No, I heard this song on the radio I have to write about Great idea for a scene CJ is gonna Anyway, so so let's get back to the question because it's it's you know Here's the thing So the all episode ends because they're always you know, this guy's into the question and people who does what's our answer to that question? Oh, I don't know. I don't know what is our answer. What is Bartlett's answer and the end of the episode is is Bartlett asking he actually being asked What his answer to the question is and he says he doesn't know he's got to think about it now What are we back there again? We did it again, right? This has been happening on every fucking episode now Where we get to Bartlett and he's supposed to have a speech or do the thing and he doesn't do it Yeah, but I guarantee you I guarantee you this is the insane thing about this show Like last week we find out, you know two interesting things happened last week Brian our pal and Philly appointed this out specifically last week they introduced two concepts one is that Leo Was engaged in war crimes against his knowledge, but he is committed more crimes and the other is there's this incredibly rugged Manly war Correspondent who has just joined the White House Press pool that CJ has a thing for now. My understanding is we're never gonna see that guy again Yeah, and I guarantee you we're never gonna hear about Leo's war crimes again Yeah But on a show in which you were actually thinking weeks and months ahead and designing seasons to have kind of fully fleshed out arcs instead of just a little the president's running in MF this trial That reporter would catch wind of Leo's war crimes and you could be building towards something really pretty interesting Yes, but that would involve actually writing drama That would involve putting our characters in conflict that matters having to look at themselves in ways that Last more than just one moment one scene and and it just doesn't happen But on that same show I with the same assurance that I know Leo will never have to atone or even address his war crimes Bartlett will eventually Tell us why he wants to be president and it will be a great Aaron Sorkin speech. That's what he's doing He's laying us up for that. Okay, so This is in my head the whole time this is happening He's already president Why does he want to be president? Well, he answered he already answered this question because he got it He had it asked to him a million times We're using our three years ago four years ago. This isn't this isn't a thing now This is a thing maybe if you're doing the first Campaign to become it's not a thing. It's not a thing. Yeah, no one's mouth. No one's baffled by this question It's and especially with what we know about the Bartlett character if there's one thing he could nail It is this question. It is literally what we have been told is his wheelhouse And now they ask him he's like I got nothing Right, but I'm telling you they're setting us up for the big speech You're everything you're saying is correct, but they are setting us up for the big speech And it but it does it just it's insane how this stuff happens and then never I Go back and forth this stuff so much when I was a kid We talked about Night Stalker on this show if I have invented already we've done wait what I went I went Twitter today Twitter today pointed out that The Democratic politics were bad before the West Wing and we didn't need to do the show. Oh my god. I'm Sitting here thinking god damn it. We've done so many I can't even remember what I fucking talked about But anyway, so I love the night stalker as a kid nice. I was Darren McGavin plays this reporter Colchak. It's fucking great It's still ground went back and watched it recently. It's still Fantastic cigar chomping hat wearing where's a motor hat? And he was a reporter who's invariably its proto X files and yes They acknowledge it openly. They love they have great reverence for the show One of the things that drove me nuts as a kid about Night Stalker is that this week Colchak? Get to wind of something weird going on it turns out to be a Vampire on the loose in the city and the climax of the episode is you know the vampire attacking Colchak and attacking Colchak's editor This is all as important the editors. Yeah, the guy who was like, what are you crazy vampires? And they're like, oh my god Holy shit Colchak. You're right. There was a vampire Colchak saves his editor from the vampire next week Colchak gets witness of the weird going on It's a fucking mummy run around the city Colchak's editor Colchak. Are you insane? Yeah, there's that fucking mummy What's the matter then the mommy attacks the editor? That's right? Wow, thanks for saving me for that mummy next week Hey boss, I think there's werewolves. Are you out of your mind Colchak? Everyone knows this. So there was no fucking continuity whatsoever It made me crazy. Yes cut to like I actually stopped watching the X files because that showed me be crazy for the exact opposite reason the fucking continuity Got so goddamn heavy that happens on so many shows they got buried it So this entire episodes that are just wrestling with 500 different stupid ideas you've let loose over the past five years and it's not actually an interesting story So I I don't like that shit either but what drives me nuts on this show is it's it is it's taking the Colchak approach Essentially to everything because you have some revelation You know Josh getting shot was the worst of it where it took weeks and weeks and weeks and finally someone went like you know Maybe you should dress the fact that Josh might have PTSD. So like Weeks and weeks and weeks after he's been shot. We decided he's suffering from having been shot but Just happens it has no repercussions unless it's a continued story then that goes away. Yeah Even the continued stories go on for three or four episodes and then they just dropped Well, except for the MS story, which is just dragging on and I am gonna say unless you have something you want to say is and that shit keeps Going this week. I don't think we need to I mean who gives a fuck gives a fuck I mean Yeah Then there's this submarine. Yeah, it's submarine Okay, and I'm so I'm so I know what the show is now So as soon as they said the situation with the submarine, which is that a submarine Doing a little spy work off of North Korea It has gone quiet so they don't know what's happened to it is is it taking on water? Is it what is it? So the submarine captain is not gonna contact anybody because that would fuck up the mission and expose them and And then you got a whole can of worms so they don't know what to do and they're trying to figure it out And as soon as I hear that I think oh Yeah, at the end of the episode he this the submarine captain is just gonna come on and go. Hey, I'm here Yeah, like because that is let me clarify the issue is he's either going quiet or something's wrong Correct and yeah, you're right this being the West Wing It's like they're gonna run around like chickens and their heads cut off for a while Nothing will be learned nothing will be changed and then and then yeah, you'll find out you just went quiet It's it's almost like lost And I don't like it it drives me crazy, but yeah, I dropped out that Lindelof is an expert at putting balls in the air and then walking away and And everyone's interested in the balls in the air and then eventually the show just ends and nobody brings up all the balls in the air right and the difference is is that he puts balls in the air and then and then takes them out of the air and There's no reason for it and I would rather have the balls still up in the air and not knowing what happened than getting the Resolutions that I'm getting because I fucking maddening There there there's nothing to them There is nothing to all of the stakes that he sets up in the end. He goes there's no stakes Well that no and you've raised a good point because it's I Agreed I Lindelof style of writing makes me fucking insane for that very reason and it's impossible It's impossible to invest in those shows for me because I know that nine times out of ten some great mystery He raises will just go away, but what he gets that sorkin doesn't seem to is at least that first step It's a way you have to engage with the audience. You have to ask questions You have to you have to raise their Suspicion and their concerns and their desire for an answer that at least and you know He's figured out this clever way of doing it without having to figure out answers to those questions nine times out of ten You answer just enough and people go, oh, but sorkin doesn't even seem to get that and it's just What is it man? It's this weird style of writing. We're like Nothing that comes up has any fucking weight because finally in the end nothing means anything Nothing's gonna go anywhere. Nothing's gonna resolve in a meaningful way nothing No one will be changed. Nothing will be learned. You're describing liberal politics though. He is doing What the the liberal politician does and what the liberal mindset is he's doing it in writing a television show This is how he thinks there but there's no he doesn't use these stories you watch fucking Star Trek. They'll do an episode You know where where the crew learns that there are limitations to the effectiveness of the prime directive Yeah, and the end of the episode is I'm gonna stay around going oh fuck We might need to think about this and maybe they never think about it again But they have at least gone Let's tell a story where we take this sort of central concept at the heart of the characters universe and let's poke at it So they have to think about it. Let's ask the questions that are raised by this belief these characters right so share You know yeah, so can I give you an example of what that is? So this episode ends with the president going in to he's gonna send in troops or whatever to get the fucking guys out The south it's gonna be a whole operation Very perilous because it might cause an international incident blobby blah and then the capping comes on and goes hi We were quiet. There was a guy near us. I just had to stay off the phone Yeah, and the thing is is then you have the then you have the president stop and lean back and go Hey, is it worth it? I Mean to get a listening device in this area. Is it worth it? What a what are we getting? What's the payoff do we actually need that because we all want because the we could have lost a bunch of guys Or had an international incident where what are we doing now? Now that now that's the end of an episode where you just go Oh, that's interesting But none of that. There's no curie. There's no curiosity for this world There's no curiosity for for the larger stakes. It's just like it just ends and it's the craziest thing You're like it's the least satisfying Television show I think I've ever watched do it all the time too and it's like you You it's like sort of just got the barest nugget of a thing You know, you're sitting out with all your your Washington DC guys and hey Here's this thing that happens sometimes another submarine's have to go quiet for safety, but it's a little freaky, you know And people get from oh, well, that's a freaked out for 20 minutes Well, they wait to find out if the submarine's still there. Yeah, it's it's just it's it's someone jerking off to To thinking how cool people sound in a moment and how much information they have in their heads And that's all that we're getting from this show that that set up that is the premise for the beginning of a story Yes, what sort does is he makes it the story? It really is if you think about if you were writing this kind of story You would be like do I need any this or do I just go straight to the do I just do I cut the first part and just go straight to Hey The sub is is quiet and we're sending in guys like like There's even the setup is just like I'm bored with the setup that yeah Or he gets nervous and can't wait, you know, and he sends in guys and it turns out they've just gone quiet Now you're bumble. You've got a steak. I don't know. Is this terrible. I'm trying it's like it's like The sorkin's idea of a joke is you know, why did the chicken cross the road? Yeah? Okay, and they just cut Even bothered and they just cut to the chicken having not crossed the road It's like what's the point? What's the point? What is the point of asking the question? What's the point of a game? What's what the year this is not a story? You're telling me and then and then on top of that, you know We have this who was the old guy this it was an ex secretary of defense. Is that what he was Al Holbrook? But what I believe it's he playing the same guy. He was last time well, they called him they called him mr. Secretary Right, but if he was the secretary defense, he would have gone into the situation room Or whatever the fuck it's called he He was Assistant secretary of state Alwe Duncan Okay So they bring him in they bring him into the Oval Office so Barton Leo can pick his brain about The implications of what they've done Mm-hmm, and they just have him sitting around there and his basic response all the time is well, this is just a shitty idea Yeah, that's always there for to just go you guys shouldn't have that that's up there. That's yeah, that's bad Yeah, yeah And and so his his real purpose could be solved With a phone call in 10 seconds, but instead they use this great actor and I'm sitting on a couch and don't give him much to do I thought anybody does this around talk to each other. So it's it's fine. It's nice to see You know nice to nice to see him. He's great. Yeah, he's great, you know, he and he and Martin Sheen This is a fun thing was let's see right now. I'm on show there Right Levenson and like the guys the guys who created Colombo wrote a TV movie that came on in 1972 called that certain summer in which First time anybody had dealt with a story on on network TV. How Hallbrook and Martin Sheen played gay lovers. Oh my god 72 72 Holy shit the creators of Colombo, that's amazing So, yeah, I guess it was a reunion of sorts And I don't recall having seen that if I did I was a child and don't remember at all but I I bet their scenes together were more interesting And I'm a West Wing it's really it's really one of the more pointless parts I've seen on the show They just it's all about like the way Sheen is you know this older guy that he sort of in love and everything It's just some it's more character stuff, but again, it doesn't like everything. It's just it's step one There's no step to oh, there's this older guy that Just whenever he's in a room just the president just feels like incompetent around because the guy is so hard on it Okay, where's that gonna go? nowhere It's also a very good sort of you know, you have this guy here who's you know of this knowledge and and rather than sort of Exploring the idea of why we shouldn't have ships there. What exactly we're doing with our empire and all this stuff It's a really great example of just how far Democrats have gone right in that, you know, you have actual actual Democrats working on this television show from Washington DC and you have you know all of these Democrats writers Liberal writers and at no point is there any exploration of of any of that stuff? What what is it that we're doing is this worth it? It's just Like how could you not even just from a curiosity a curiosity aspect? But but they don't because that's how far Democrat Democrats have gone right at this point Well, they were out too because they make a point in this one and they all bring this up that the joint chiefs are a little It's weird that there's some tension between them and Bartlett because Bartlett never served It's funny the fact that a couple weeks ago. We had the joint chiefs for almost no reason giving him a standing o in this situation But why not go there you're right why not and it's it's you know and all Bartlett's response to that forever In every episode is to try to impress them To try to learn as much as he can about their world so he can impress them with his grasp of their lingo and their Stratagems and so forth, but wouldn't that be an interesting tension? between and and in fitting with the overtly stated politics of the show not the actual politics But if Bartlett were you know a dove if he was actually somebody who you know and not in a sort of Namby Pamby You know bullshit way, but someone who had like you know like Martin Sheen say marched with the fucking Like where's Martin Sheen on this set? Where's he not going? Hey, can we do like nowhere? He's just so taken by these I'd love to I'd love to know Because he he does stand significantly to the left of this fucking show or he did that I don't think a lot of younger people probably know that but Martin Sheen for our time Was pretty left and pretty Ed Bagley as far as being out there with this kind of shit and very outspoken And and like anti nuclear like he was always out there doing these things and Making points and it's almost like he's been neutered by this show like yeah actor himself Let's be clear. He's no I don't mean to be a great guy. He's done a lot of he's no Ed Astor He's no Ed Astor Ed Astor Ed Astor is the real fucking deal. He really is he's fucking amazing fucking love him so much and yes Who is somebody was did our friend Josh and drosski? I think was tweeting a video about what a great socialist Ed Astor is and I got all warm and fuzzy We oh, yeah, that was a great video We were we were my my dear late friend Harlan Ellison for his 80th birthday a bunch of us went to dinner And he's known Ed forever and Ed showed up. I had never met him and it's got to be 90 at that point And I've just never I've never had a better time just sitting in awe Had a just salty old guy just pounding down drinks and hitting on my wife all night Fucking love him fucking love him. Yeah, he's the greatest but yeah, but it's just weird that that Bartlett just there's no whatever conflict is between him and the Joint Chiefs is only because he didn't serve That's right And it's and by the way, I don't get and then they're giving they're giving weight to that criticism as well Which makes me fucking insane. I mean, this is not a unique observation But you know when I was somebody the other day was just running down all the terrible things you could say about Trump But I'm sitting there and that's not all with kind of bores because there's nothing easier than running down What's awful about Trump? But I don't need reminders of why I hate him and I'm like, you did this and he does that he does this He does that he does this he does that and he dodged the drafts I'm like Can we not make that yeah one of the things about him that Cuz I have plenty of friends older than me who did and I fucking what is and you fucking what is yeah Yeah, you know, god damn it. I have no no interest But yeah, think of think of the tension you can get on the show if the president was actually at odds with the military instead of just absolutely slavishly You know worshipful of it Yeah, but again, so I can still think that this is this is written 16 years before Trump comes along so certain certain things people are still going thank God here come the Americans Talking about Bush like it's come on Should we talk about soft money I guess I mean This is again this episode is just full of shit. I don't care about At least they touch upon stuff that I'm like, uh, let's see what they have to say. Oh unions, okay Let's I don't I could give a fuck about any of this stuff. I really could give a flying fuck honestly The the soft money, you know, they're trying to figure out how to craft an ad That gets across the message but use soft money so Bartlett can't be in it It can't be about Bartlett so the trend and Rob Lowe is just like this is It's it's like it's like you're trying to figure out how to grab power and there's a guy off in the corner going it's not ethical It is it is not ethical we cannot and it's just like this is Rob Lowe in this episode is why Democrats have no power And don't know how to use power Well, let's give some credit. There's there's Ron Silver's character goes off on him and and his rant is almost there It's interesting. It's here. I'll play it. Where are we Bruno and Connie managed to fight their way out of the straight jacket of our campaign fight That's laws to this you add it's a candidate. I was some words changed magic words Connie I don't know any other way to fight fire Toby. Why are you so bent on countering these idiot leaflets? I am tired of working for candidates who make me think I should be embarrassed to believe what I believe Sam I'm tired of getting them elected We all need some therapy because somebody came along and said liberal means soft on crime soft on drugs soft on communism Soft on defense and we're gonna tax you back to the Stone Age because people shouldn't have to go to work if they don't want to And instead of saying well excuse me you right-wing reactionary xenophobic homophobic anti-education anti-choice pro-gun leave it to be the trip back to the 50s We coward in the corner and said please don't hurt me No more I really don't care who's right who's wrong we're both right both Let's have two parties What do you say? That's that's not an inaccurate critique. It's not I would say it's you get the weird sense that that he's offended that they would say we're you know That that sorkin's offended because of course we're good on the military and of course we don't want to cut taxes but You know but it's still It's it's it's valid it's valid every now and then like there's a you know Array of light in the show and you're like but how come he doesn't apply it to the actual show I Just you if you believe that if that's if that's your conviction and you're writing this show couldn't couldn't you find ways to show it and It's so frustrating. It's so frustrating. It's like he doesn't understand. How do you not understand you're writing a show? It's set in the same year as the year you're living in except there's a completely different person in the fucking White House So it's by definition an alternate universe which is by definition a fantasy show Why not engage in a little bit of fantasy? Why not actually like posit something other than what's right in front of you, you know makes me insane Why not why not try to have this administration and try to push back on some of that stuff? Yeah, no, I mean if you're making this speech there there really is no reason why you wouldn't Try any of this. It's just yeah, it's really fucking baffling Yeah And then Toby's response is oh, you're right. Okay, we're gonna do issue ads and again basically saying and we'll kick off some amazing debate Yeah, I mean that that was literally the only moment of this episode where I was like, oh, that's interesting Yeah, but I couldn't give a flying fuck about but that was the one speaker was like this guy's right. I actually wondered if Sorkin wrote it or if You know Ron Silver was pretty combative even when he was a Democrat Yeah Before 9 11 He was especially combative because he wanted the Democrats to support Israel more but Right He went after his own Party and I when I was watching that I was wondering how much of him was in there Yeah, yeah, well, here's my where where are you the you're the you're the expert on this stuff where where is Sorkin in his Yeah, yeah, well here's my where where are you the you're the expert on this stuff where where is Sorkin in his Drug use at this point is it is it conceivable that he's mostly high and just every now and then he's not and he writes something lucid Well, he's been he's been this is after he got caught right at the airport What what do we know what what month this was filmed or what month this was written? I mean No, no, we don't know what month this was filmed or what month this was written I mean No, no, we don't So April 2001 so yeah, so he's he's been he's been busted long before this so he's been busted he came together and He came together and Apologize to the staff that he'd let everyone on the show. We gathered the whole show around right let them all know that he had been very dumb Yeah, there are rumors that there's a riff with him and And Sheen Because of the sobriety stuff which I don't know okay, it's true, but he's denying it So I think I don't know if he's in I don't know if he went to rehab because I don't think he could go to rehab Because Right he has to do the show so you have to not Be in rehab You know, I was I was witness to one of the craziest things ever Robert Downey Jr. Obviously had his drug issues and he was in rehab at one point And they decided it would be good idea to take him out of the middle of his rehab and have him host Saturday Night Live Oh nice and I was friends with the guy who booked the extras So if I needed to make a few bucks a couple hundred to make my insurance he would once a while pop me in And I didn't have to do anything like usually extras have to sit around all day And he would just let me come in and sit in one scene and then leave and I sat a Robert Downey Jr. scene in which he was talking to a group of people in a restaurant And it was horrifying he was standing there sweating He looked like he was gonna fucking scream like it was the most uncomfortable I've ever seen any human being He should never have been there And so I wonder like well where the fuck was sorkin at this point like what is he? Because I feel like the writing with all this stuff is just dropping off and also the the sort of simplicity of how How sort of awesome America is is becoming more and more prevalent And it feels it feels like he's It's sorkin not trying at all. That's how it feels to me. It's I feel like he was trying before and he's just completely stopped trying So I don't know I mean I definitely think there is something lackluster about this season I will say I'm I mean he said he never wrote high which I don't believe I mean if you know writers like you know Jesus Christ people feel themselves up all kinds of ways Yeah But you know it's it's a big success. It's one a bunch of Emmys in the last year I don't I don't know. I don't know where he is. I mean it's a big success I don't I don't know. I don't know where he is. I mean Like you that's a really weird place to be as a human being Getting caught with your drugs going to Vegas and then you clearly have a problem. You've had a you've had a drug problem forever Now you got popped again. It's a thing Yeah, no, it's I was just wondering if perhaps, you know, this was a moment of Lucidity on his part the run silver ransom, but I don't think so I if anything I feel if anything I feel like a new voice is pushing in a new voice is pushing in it Definitely feels like There's there's the through line of Just sort and I talked about in the past episode, but it's almost that that That loyalist thing that Protestant You know shit and and it feels like it's becoming more and more prevalent with each episode. There's always a sort of Storyline that it's just it's just that it's just how great the pageantry is and all that shit and yeah Yeah, so I don't know if that's him or if that's because it's it's new It's it's so new that we we're now being startled by it every now And we bring it up almost every episode in the past like six episodes. It's definitely a thing So, you know and that and we're talking about right after him getting popped and all that stuff So it's definitely who knows is that him or is that him being lazy or is that someone else is that John Wells? John Wells. Yeah, I don't know. He's working as one more season after this Yeah, he leaves For yeah, he leaves I believe at the end of fourth when everyone's Contracts are being negotiated And people keep you know, this is the horrifying thing about you know TV show how many fucking hours this thing as we slog through this people keep tweeting us about amazing episodes that are coming our way, you know Halfway through season four You're only gonna make us kill ourselves Yes, but I do I keep waiting for you know some of these things being so dull and inert that we have to cram two of them to one And we have yet to do so. So yeah, there's always there's always something I am astonished. I mean, let's go, you know We had to talk about what was happening in the streets of our country right now before we got into the meat of the show because It just boggles my mind that Aaron Sorkin just doesn't go into any of these fucking issues We did one thing with a cop who shot a guy But who was so clearly railroaded and was a good cop who did the right thing and that's as close as he ever comes to touching on this stuff but the fact that Sorkin could write a show about America and and the White House and politics and right left strife and and just Never envisioned anything. I don't look what's happening right now is is If it's not historically unprecedented, it's not a thing that has happened in my lifetime before I Don't expect Sorkin to a foreseeing that but the fact that there were no No uprising is no You know inner city strife no serious addressing of you know The brutality of white supremacy in American life He just doesn't go there. He doesn't touch on it. You know, you can't You can't legitimately tie in a discussion of what happened on the West Wing this week with what's happening out in the streets Because just it doesn't touch his world In any way shape or form and what's interesting is it starting to now? I'd be you know, if he did that show today He'd have to address this stuff. Yeah, and it's also interesting to me that Look, I think I think the reason we finally I sort of I found confirmation and affirmation what we're doing Lately It's it's Incredible to watch this happen and to watch people who even five years ago would have been just straight up horrified about it Are now actually very sympathetic. What is that? It's only like 65% of Americans support the the protest. I mean, that's that's amazing. That is 54% support the burning of the police precinct Exactly, I mean imagine that happening 20 years ago and this is you know, I am I am I can't do much in politics I'm not I'm not that person. It's not the world they're working. I'm a writer. I did I write I put you know It's rhetoric is where it is for me I think it's one of the reasons we're fixing it on the show because sorkin's obsessed with that But the overton window as a concept is so fucking important politically and nobody ever talks about it But what we're seeing right now is is the effectiveness of that. I think the You know Bernie Sanders movement all of that has helped push things a little bit back to the left So that people are having slightly more human reactions to these things and we were five or ten years ago My my mother-in-law watching protesters around the White House threatening to burn it the fuck down Sitting there gone. Yeah, okay My sister my sister tech me After they burned on the police station. Yeah, okay, so she's a suburban mom Her husband's a construction union construction guy. They're just standard, you know not not More Democrat than anything else and she text me and she goes I hope they burned down all the fucking police stations in Minneapolis That's where we are You that's but that is a function of people pushing at the window There's all these people who still if you ask them consciously well black lives matter is an organization I have some issues with it But just that fucking phrase being hammered at you by the right people on a daily basis and look where it gets you all of a sudden people who never thought about this stuff are like, you know Are you with their neighbors? Well, don't say all lives matter that makes you a racist yours and it's sinking the fuck in It's having an effect. It's why it's essential to have these conversations to make them loud It's why these movements matter even if you think the ultimate goal of what they're asking for is too much for you It's it's about pushing that dialogue back to some semblance of a humanist leftist progressive culture and it's why a show like West Wing is so harmful because It did everything in its power and I honestly think it was on Sorkin's part Not intended because he's just too fucking dumb But he pushed everything so far to the right it did and and you know This is why it's important to say this stuff This is why you know, it's all the people who will tell you that the Occupy movement failed But just the fact that the 1% is now a term that means something to fucking everybody and the overwhelming majority of people I don't know maybe 99% Dave have you know a bad feeling about the 1% That is a function of this group pushing the Overton window to the left also The Occupy movement did not fail the Occupy movement Radicalized a group of human beings who then were in a place and then were dispersed and when they were dispersed They went all over the country and they started radical cells everywhere And now you're seeing the fruition of what began back then This has all been pushed forward just like Ferguson and the people who were in Ferguson taught others and it spreads And it's a fucking it's a virus that you cannot stop once it starts once you break up Occupy and you abuse them the way you did now you have created a movement and these things never happen fast They always happen slow, but it is being revealed how much and how far these things went just like in Seattle, you know Fucking what was it? God was in the 90s that they they had the protests against the the G Oh, yeah It was like 98 or something like they were way ahead of the fucking term like that's the same thing that then leads to Occupy All these things lead to each other and they feed each other, but now we're at critical mass we're at critical mass now and and Thank God that there are millions of unemployed people when this is going on They're so fucking dumb all they had to do is pay people off all they do is pay him and they yeah I know to that a month and this would not have happened Oh, I want to take a moment to congratulate Nancy Pelosi for going on Jim Kramer show Today because CNBC show about stocks is really the best place for the leader of the Democratic Party To make their point and also to the people on Twitter who were saying that Nancy Pelosi looked like a badass and Oh with her pink in her pink No, no describe her let's let's let's let's cuz one of these drugs we have a lot of these podcasts and everyone assumes everybody lives on fucking Twitter Nancy Pelosi may I already want to go ahead Nancy Pelosi was just somebody tweeted out these pictures. They went viral of it's policy wearing her pink mask from two different angles that says vote in Darnes diamonds are the actual diamonds or just I mean yeah, I like a diamond size pink vote mask and Somebody tweeted out what a badass and of course her mask matches her dress and And so by the way, if you if she also recently voted to expand the Patriot Act and give Trump more power What a badass, but yeah, but her fucking vote mask if you think that's badass you are literally a human being from the Hunger Games That's you are a person cheering on When they do their big big stage show, that's what you are you are that fucking disgusting Yeah, I think it's a vote and it had been written in Trump's blood Removed from him by sinking her fangs into his throat I could go with it, but yeah, it's insane. It's insane It's like it's it's it's not even it's not even performative anymore. It's not like You know look it's insane to think that her dopey clap or tearing up a speech means something, but those are at least vaguely You're giving lip service to the idea of defiance with those things. Well, what the fuck does that pink diamond studded vote mask? How is that badass you know, how is that? You know that since this began she has been color coordinating her masks their outfits, right? Every day and people are just like look at this one. It's blue. So is her outfit. This is amazing It's actually not imagine being the poor the poor prick who works for her who's got to make sure she's got a mask to fit every outfit Yeah Well, we'll be back next week maybe So stay safe out there That's that's kind of the idea of the house now Let the thugs know their time is So It's over It's a way as we think It's a way as we think