 Welcome to the dollop. That's why they call me the Cadillac in the gangster Mac. Yeah, we're starting a little different Is it a historical American American history podcast I Dave Anthony each week read a story to my friend Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about Cuz he doesn't read I do too People say this is funny not Gary Gareth Dave. Okay, someone or something is tickling Is it for fun and this is not gonna come particularly quite good. Okay? You are Queen Fakie of made-up town all hail Queen shit of Liesville a bunch of religious Virgins go to mingle and do what pray I The year was 1873 Jesus Not good the place was County Donagall, Ireland. Is it Donagall? Sure. Yeah, look at me for that Yes, it's Donagall your people from over there. Yeah, it's Donagall Michael Malloy was born into the world now. We have no idea how he came to America or what he did in America for a long time But there he lived in New York City in 1932, okay So he's now an older. Yeah, what is so what some years together for these fifties? Yeah, and today He is now remembered today as Mike the Durable or iron Mike Okay, now he wasn't the smartest Irishman in the world He wasn't bringing a lot of common sense to the table But he was a tough son of a bitch. He had no friends and no family and no definitive Birthday, we don't exactly know so no no actual trade that he applied. He wasn't a bricklayer He didn't he wasn't part of a union. Okay, so we don't know a ton about this man. He was homeless Okay, living in New York City live in the fucking life. Yeah. Yeah Right and high. I was during a you know a time in America in the final months of prohibition Okay, this time period Great time, but anybody could find a drink if they wanted in New York City during prohibition with the many speakeasies, right swordfish Swordfish, I don't know what just happened. It's password password swordfish I know it's a hell of it today. Yeah, Matt The Great Depression had 25% of American population unemployed at this point So he would occasionally pick up work as a street cleaner. Mm-hmm or a coffin polisher I know which one I'm after out of those two occupations polisher Shiner up there nice Molly. No, no, no, it's my l'oeil sir You don't want to embarrass the corpse when it gets inside the coffin. Oh, it's got to be shiny I should be able to eat off of where the dead body was lying and I'm going to Steak and potatoes right off the body People are gonna be so happy there's accents. Yeah And he was happy often to just be paid an alcohol instead of money for jobs. Love that well, that's it's a great policy It's a long-term strategy. It is a long-term strategy and it's it's what I would call a Little bit of a stereotype. Sure. Yeah, sure. You can pay me a whiskey. Oh No, you're not gonna get you just give me my payment and my throat and I'll fuck right off Fuck you they gonna go get a fight with me self out in the alley. That's right Punching gonna punch me in the knickers. What's up? No fucking tip today, bitch You ain't got a fucking tip today The man daily mail described Michael Malloy as Drunk all the time part of the quote flotsam and jetsam in the swift current of underworld speakeas life Those no longer responsible derelicts who stumble through the last days of their lives in a continual haze of bow re-smoke Okay, then so live in it. Okay. Yeah, just loving life, right? Just living every day like it's your last in a bad way literally Yeah, literally every day like it's barfly Yeah, he's bookhouse. Yeah, okay without the writing right with the coffin polishing instead Moya often found himself in the speakeasy of a man named Tony Marino. Okay the empty store Looked dark with dusty wooden crates piled high behind the windows Okay, but behind the crates was a sofa four tables a plywood bar along the back wall and a large supply of bootleg Whiskey, okay? Yeah girl. Yeah, get it. Marino slept at night on the sofa Okay, so that's a life. It's it sounds okay The Bronx speakeasy kept Tony Marino from standing in bread lines But not always his clientele were not the top of the line people Right sometimes they had no money to pay sometimes they drank and then reveal their empty pockets Oh, sorry Tony. Well, what are you gonna do? Oh shit. Look what happened here? I get paid in whiskey Goes right through me pocket. So unfortunately, this is not whiskey pocket sir. I could pay you in piss How about I shit on your floor there you go that portions yours that's for you Tony Oh, so man will run up a tab, right? Michael Malloy was considered to be the worst of the bunch. Okay? He showed up each morning at Marino's place morning is a good time to show up and requested quote Another morning's morning if you don't mind another morning's morning. Yeah Okay, that's his way of saying I need a drink right Hello, sir, I'm alive. It would be great to go back to that time because you live all the slang I'd be like what does he mean? I know what the fuck you talking about? Does he say it? Shut me up with another morning's morning. I'll have a morning's morning. Oh, my boy's a castle. You know that I'm sorry What's the fuck happening? Oh? Boy, I'll tell you what if the wagon don't flip I'll be inside tonight Oh good lord of boards coming out of me this evening isn't that uh-huh? Well, I've done chewing rocks time to go for a nap. I'm sorry. What is uh? I'm gonna ride a pack of fish right right What is okay? Let's go or stay what are we doing? What the fuck is happening? but For a while Marino let Malloy drink on credit But because he no longer paid his tabs. He had to pay in cash Okay business said the saloon keeper to his friends is bad All right one afternoon in July 1932 Francis Pasqua Daniel Christberg and Tony Marino sat in Marino's drink hole and discussed Michael Malloy Okay, now the reason they were discussing him is because he was laying passed out on the floor right sure which he often did right You want to talk about that guy? Yeah? Oh there he is This is and this is before people were drawing penises on people So this is a while ago. Yeah, yeah the prior year Marino had befriended a homeless woman named Mabel Carson and convinced her to take out a two thousand dollar life insurance policy naming him as the beneficiary Okay, naming Marino as the beneficiary right okay, then one cold New York night He forced fed her alcohol stripped off her clothing doused the sheets and mattress with ice water and push the bed beneath an open window The medical examiner when you say befriended What do you mean I mean Not in the best sense. Okay. Yeah, yeah, but friend is probably not the best. I don't know if this is a befriending Yeah, more of the opposite of a friend die under this window There you go, Pally If you're homeless and someone wants you to take out a Life insurance policy that probably don't do it. Yeah Definitely, that's a red flag right here. Okay. Who gets the money? So what is it about my life that attracts you to it so much? You see his potential? You see something in me mister you think I'm gonna go Harvard mister The medical examiner listed the cause of death as bronchial pneumonia and Marino collected the money without incident That's a nice story. That's a mid who doesn't win in that tale I can't think of anybody. That's not a person comes to mind now Pasqua was an undertaker by trade. Okay He looked at Malloy passed out and snoring on the floor and said, why don't you take an out insurance on Malloy? And Marino Was like, yeah, that's not a bad idea and Pasqua said look I can take care of the rest. I'm an undertaker. I got this Marino nodded and iron Mike iron Mike Marino nodded and looked at the past out Malloy. He looks all in he ain't got much longer to live anyhow He and Pasqua glanced over at Daniel Kreisberg the 29 year old fruit vendor and father of three would later say he participated for the sake of his family he nodded so already the hands tipped when participated Okay, so let's murder this man. Yeah Yeah, Pasqua offered to do the legwork and paid in acquaintance to go with him to meetings with insurance agents The acquaintance called himself Nicholas Mallory So I don't even know what yeah, I don't even think it's close. Yeah Hey My cousin's name is Dave Anthony and my name and my name is Jeff The ethnicist I'm Jeff Manthony Okay, thank you and we wanted to take an insurance policy out on this Homeless man the guy who lays down on the floor now wait, weren't you the guy that befriended that homeless woman that died? Oh, yeah, my good friend Mabel. That's right. Mr. Manthony Mabel Nicholas Mallory gave his occupation as a florist It took Pasqua five months to secure three policy all offering double indemnity on Nicholas Mallory's life Wait on Nicholas man. No, yeah on iron Mike. Gotcha to with Prudential life insurance company and one with Metropolitan life insurance company That's crazy that those are still Those are still functioning insurance companies. Yeah Yeah That's bad in its own way. Yeah, that's yeah Pasqua recruited Joseph Murphy a bartender at Marino's to identify the deceased as Michael Malloy and claim to be his next of kin and beneficiary If all one is planned Pasqua and his cohorts would split $3,576 that's worth a murder. Well now at that time it was it's about 54,000 so that's still I know there's a bunch of guys going out. It's no one's getting much money. Yeah The number of men involved in the murder of Malloy increased two of Marino's regulars petty criminals John McNally and Edward tinier Smith were in Edward was nicknamed tinier because he had an artificial ear Although it was made out of wax Christ Well, I can't go there there's gonna be a fire, right? My fucking ear will melt are there candles? Why they're fucking tell me are there candles? I'm not going if there's candles. I told you dude I can't go there if there's fire, bro My fucking ear will melt. I don't want to pay for another fucking ear Jesus Christ last time we went there was you know I mean the way you're paying for these ears. They're terrible, but it's a fucking guy It's all I can afford man the dude making the wax ears like this is fucking awesome I was buying this shit a Wax ear What I tell you I told you not to go out the Sun to this I know I was sorry I tried to live my life for a day. It's a hundred and two out. Just give me my new ear. Okay. Yeah, but they're you you're called Drippity ear now. That's this one has a fucking wick in the middle of it It I had to do it fast. God damn it. Don't light it. Well, I'm not gonna light the fucking ear I'm not going to light the ear I Tough Tony Bastone and his sidekick Joseph Everybody as a sidekick also became part of the plot everybody as a side you gotta have a sidekick back then I love that aspect One night of December 1932 they all gathered at the speakeasy to kill Michael Malloy Regular hang so it works Malloy showed up and to a surprising delight Tony Marino granted him an open-ended tab saying competition from other saloons had forced him to ease the rules. Jesus. Okay, so here's the deal. There's a lot of saloons out there, so I'm going to give away booze. Oh, well, while this sounds a little too good to be true, I also love the sound of this situation. Therefore, pass me the fucking bottle, mate. As soon as Maloy had down to shot, Merino filled his glass. Maloy had been a hard drinker all his life, one witness said, and he drank on and on. He drank until Merino's arm got tired from holding the bottle. Remarkably, Maloy's breathing remained steady. His skin retained its normal, ruddy tinge, and finally he dragged his dirty sleeve across his mouth, thanked his host for the hospitality, and said he'd be back soon. Oh, that's awesome. He's just straight and he's like, wait. He's going to die now, right? I'll see you tomorrow. Fuck. Lucky charms are buff. Well, I should probably fucking go. I'm fucking shit-faced, oh, yum. Thanks so much. I'm glad to hear about this newfound competition as well. Fucking, I'm coming up fucking winner on this one. And he brought me out when I started to eat. Within 24 hours, he was back. This pattern went on for three straight days. Maloy would come in, drink nonstop for hours, and then exit. He only paused once to eat a complimentary sardine sandwich. Oh, god. Merino and the other potential murders were baffled. On the fourth day, Maloy stumbled into the bar. Well, he exclaimed, ain't I got a thirst? I got a thirst. I ain't I got a thirst. I ain't I got a thirst. Tough Tony suggested they should shoot Maloy in the head. You know what happened after that though, he'd go, well, I should probably turn in. I got a bit of a fucking headache. But that would obviously seem like murder. Yeah, Murphy recommended another solution, changing Maloy's whiskey and gin with shots of wood alcohol. Drinks containing just 4% wood alcohol would cause blindness. And by 1929, more than 50,000 people nationwide had died from the effects of impure alcohol. They were not going to serve Maloy shots tainted with wood alcohol, but straight wood alcohol. So, okay, so 4% makes him go blind. Yeah. So they're going to give him 100%. Right. So I don't know, he flies? He doesn't happen. Christberg showed a rare bit of enthusiasm. Yeah, feed him wood alcohol cocktails and see what happens. Ain't I got a thirst. Murphy brought a few 10 cent cans of wood alcohol at a nearby paint shop and carried them back in a brown paper bag. He served Maloy shots of cheap whiskey to get him feeling good and then made the switch. The gang watched as Maloy down several shots and kept asking for more, displaying no physical symptoms. Ain't I got a thirst. Other than his usual inepiration. Oh my God. He didn't know that he was drinking wood alcohol, reported the New York Evening Post, and what he didn't know apparently didn't hurt him. He drank all the wood alcohol he was given and came back for more. Oh, did I tell you I can't die? Ain't I got a thirst. Oh, geez. I can't stop drinking the wood alcohol. I'm as drunk as an oak tree. And he came back night after night. What the fuck? He saddled up to the bar. Die. And drank wood alcohol as fast as Murphy could pour them. He's just drinking poison. Over and over again. Oh, it's got a kick. Oh, boy. Who's someone that's not sitting right? My sardines, how much ain't sitting right right now? Then one night Maloy finally crumpled to the floor. The gang fell silent, staring at the jumbled heat by their feet. Pasquale knelt by Maloy's body, feeling the neck for a pulse and lowering his ear to the mouth. The man's breath was slow and labored. They decided to wait, watching the sluggish rise and fall of his chest any minute now. Finally, there was a long jagged breath. Maloy then began to snore. No, no. Jesus. Are you awake in some hours later? Oh my God. Rubbed his eyes and said, give me some of the old regular, me lad. And he's not, I mean, it's not like he's drinking water in between these fucking sessions. It's all he's drinking. It's poison. It's just wood alcohol. It's fucking poison. He's just on a diet of poison and he keeps getting up and drinking more poison. The plot to kill Michael Maloy was becoming very expensive. They spent so much money on wood alcohol. The open bar tab, the cans of wood alcohol and the monthly insurance premiums started to add up. They're losing. Marina, they are. They're telling us that. The net loss on their murder. Marina was getting worried that his speakeasy would go bankrupt. Tough Tony once again advocated some sort of violent death. But Pasqua had another idea. Maloy had a well-known taste for seafood. Why not drop some oysters in denatured alcohol, let them soak for a few days and serve them while Maloy drank. I mean, quote, alcohol taken during a meal of oysters. Pasqua was quoted as saying will almost invariably cause acute indigestion for the oysters tend to remain preserved. So I'm assuming that causes some sort of horrible fucking stomach nightmare that you die from. Sure enough, boy, eight them one by one, savoring each bite. Boy, am I glad I met you, fellas. And he washed them all down with wood alcohol. He's just eating poison, washing it down with poison. Marina, Pasqua and the rest waited. But Maloy merely licked his fingers and belched. Like a cartoon. Dude, if there's ever been a human cartoon. Now the killing of Michael Maloy was becoming as much a battle of the wills as it was about money. Because there were so many people involved, the amount of money each man would get was getting increasingly smaller. Murphy tried another plan next. He led a tin of sardines rot for several days. Jesus. Mixed in some shrapnel and glass slathered the concoction between pieces of bread and served Maloy the sandwich. Any minute they thought the metal will start and glass will start slashing through his organs. Instead, Maloy finished his tin sandwich and asked for another. No, another. Well, it's crunchy, but I like it. Do you like what you've done? It's got nice texture in the middle. Say, can I have a little bit of poison to wash that down with? I can still see. The gang called an emergency conference. They couldn't understand what was happening. Marina suggested they ice Maloy down and leave him outside overnight as he'd done with his previous murder. Let's just go back to the murder drawing board. That evening after Maloy drank until he passed out, Marino and Pasqua put Maloy into a car, drove in silence to Crotona Park and lugged the unconscious drunk through the snow. They put him on a park bench, stripped off his shirt and dumped bottles of water on his chest and head. Maloy never woke up. When Marino arrived at the Speakeys the next day, he found Maloy in the basement, half frozen. Maloy had walked a half mile back and freezing temperatures had persuaded Murphy to let him in. When he came to, he complained of a we-chill. No, I thought he was dead. I thought that was it. I thought you'd said he died. No, he just didn't wake up. Well, they're pouring water out. And he went back. He woke up later. He went back. That's where the booze is. I'm gonna we-chill. What? You're a little cold. I don't remember going out with that shirt on and falling in water and sleeping on the bench. Anyway. Your fellas are good to me. Your fellas are my best fucking friends. Could I have a sandwich and a drink? February neared. Another insurance payment was due. John McNally said they should run Maloy over with a car. I mean, at this point, they're just like, he won't die. Ten years Smith was skeptical, but Marino Pasqua, Murphy and Kreisberg thought it was a decent plan. John Maglione offered the services of a cab driver friend named Harry Green, who's cut from the insurance money would be 150. I mean, they are. What are they gonna make a dollar? It always works when you bring in everybody. It never goes wrong. That night after filling up Maloy with wood alcohol, they all got into Green's cab. I mean, at this point too, they're not counting on the wood alcohol to do anything. They're just like, it's cheaper. You'll drink this shit. They all got into Green's cab with a drunken Maloy lying across their feet. Green drove a few blocks and stopped. Baston and Murphy dragged Maloy down the road and held them up crucifixion style by his outstretched arms. Green gunned the engine and everyone braced. From the corner of his eye, Maglione saw a quick flash of light. Stop! He yelled. The cab screeched to a halt. Green realized it had just been a woman turning on the light in her room and gave the green light again. But Maloy managed to leap out of the way of the cab, not once, but twice. They fucking holding him and then at the last minute they move and then he just sat out of the way, heard your voice save my life back there. On the third attempt, Green raced toward Maloy at 50 miles an hour and plowed into him. There were two thuds, one loud and one soft, one from the body hitting the hood and the other when the car, when the body hit the ground. For good measure, Green backed up over Maloy. Jesus Christ. A passing car came and they took off, confident Maloy was finished. Confident Maloy was finished. Yeah, well they hit him with a fucking car and they ran him over. I'm confident Maloy's finished. Yeah, I mean Jesus Christ. It was Joseph Murphy who had been cast as Nicholas Melody's brother to call morgues in hospitals in an attempt to locate his missing sibling. Okay. Right, so the guy who says is... Right. Yeah. Have you seen him? I love him so much, I think he might be in a hospital. Last time I saw him he was drinking wood poison, eating shrapnel and running around in the streets like Jesus. And getting hit by a cab. But no one had any information and there were no reports of a fatal accident in the newspapers. Oh boy. After five days, Pascal was plotting to kill another anonymous drunk. Jesus. Any anonymous drunk and pass him off as Nicholas Melody. That's who they said the... That's who they said the... He was. Right. When the door to Marino's... So it doesn't even really matter who it is. No. They're just like... They just need a body. It did become a bit of a redemption thing. Yeah. Uh, so after five days the door to Marino's speakeasy swung open and in limped a battered binge, Michael Maloy. Shut the fuck up. What is this? We're looking only slightly worse off than usual. I sure am dying for a drink, he said. Oh my God. Oh my God. Maloy had an amazing... I'm dying for a drink. Can you imagine what he walks in again? You're like, what the fuck? I mean, this guy is actually Jesus. Maloy had an amazing story to tell. What he could remember of it anyway. He recalled the taste of whiskey, the cold slap of night air, the glare of rushing lights, then blackness. Next thing he knew, he woke up in a warm bed at Fordham Hospital and wanted only to get back to the bar. Because I wanted to tell you guys I was alright. A police officer had come by moments after the gang sped off and called an ambulance. Then on February 21, 1933, two of the men rented a room in an old boarding house with gas lighting. Once Maloy was once again good and drunk, they hauled him there, connected a hose to the gas light fixture and ran it into Maloy's mouth. What into his mouth? Carbon monoxide flowed into his body and killed, finally, old Mike the Durable. In his mouth, I think that's pretty much came over. But the genius murder trust didn't know that carbon monoxide pushes oxygen out of the blood stream and forms a bond with blood that is 200 times more powerful than that of oxygen, inducing chemical suffocation. Dr. Frank Manzela, a shady doctor and a friend of Pasquale's filed a phony death certificate citing pneumonia as the cause. They had the body buried quickly and went to collect their payout. The gang received only $800 from the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Murphy and Marino each spent their share on new suits. Pasquale arrived at the Prudential office, confident he would collect the money from the other two policies, but the agent surprised him with a question. When can I see the body? Pasquale replied that he had already been buried. The story of Iron Mike was too good of a secret to keep. Members of the gang began telling others about the amazing tale. I mean, how could you not? Like, if you commit a murder, you're like, I'm not going to tell you, but this is the craziest murder ever. You didn't commit a murder. No, you killed the saint. Saint Whiskey. Yeah. The story started circulating in other bars, making its way around other card games until the Bronx police picked up the rumors and skeptically, if skeptically at first, began an investigation. City forensic scientists exhumed the body, and even though this was several months after the death. And he sat up and goes, who have got a weird taste in my mouth? Geez, I can use something for my mouth. Did it, Whiskey? Ooh, I've never been those thirsty in my years. I've got to touch the death. And he's a skeleton. Even though this was several months after the death, by that time, researchers knew that carbon monoxide was not only efficient but durable, tainting a body for weeks after death. Laboratory analysis easily found lethal levels of carbon monoxide in the remains of old Mike Malloy. And it turned out the genius murder trust had made a mistake having a corrupt doctor sign the death certificate. He spilled his guts. As did the cab driver. They both made deals and testified for the prosecution. Frank Pascua, Tony Marino, Daniel Kreisberg, and Joseph Murphy were tried and convicted of first degree murder. They all went to the electric chair in the summer of 1934. A reporter for the now vanished New York Daily Mirror recorded the execution. The Quay of the Dynamo, 2000 volts and 10 amperes. The rip saw current that tears went apart. Three shocks. It was the state's toast to old Mike the Durable. Wow. Fuck. Right? Yeah. It's sad when he dies. It is sad when he dies. You don't expect this man to die. No. When they're saying that they pumped him full carbon monoxide, you're like, I'll be all right. Yeah. He'll be all right. Yeah. Like they'll be like finally he's dead. Four days later, he'll just come in and be like, Oh, don't lie to match around me every time I breathe. It's a flame. Anyway, any hole, I have some wood booze. There's the top still open then. Are you still in a competitive atmosphere where to stay alive? You have to keep giving me wood booze and shrapnel sandwiches. Oh, I like the wood boys you're serving here now. It's quite good. And he's just drinking from a bottle that says poison. Put fucking hair on your chest boy, not a put hair on your chest. Give me some more razor blades to chomp on. Yeah, I was so lovely. I love this chewing gum. Oh, it's nice cutting right through my fucking teeth. It is. Jesus Christ. What's wrong with people? Oh, that's a great one. Yeah. That's phenomenal. That's great. I just can't die. God damn hero. God damn hero. That's awesome. I'll teach you to try to poison it. Irishman with booze. Fucking luck. It's like trying to drown a fish with water. He's just swimming. He loves it. Fuck. Oh, all right. All right. Well played. Well played. Well played. Good night everybody. Thank you for watching.