 Hello! My name is Dave Anthony, you are listening to The Dollop, which is an American History podcast and each week I read a story to my friend... Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about! Nor anything from history! Hey, hey, hey! Duh! Hey! I'm Gary! Alright! You want to go here to do that? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickle you, Quad. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do a fraying. Hi, Gary. No, I'm missing... He's done, my friend. No, no! You got any dates, anything you want to mention? I will be with Patton in Berkeley on Wednesday. Patton Oswalt in Berkeley on Wednesday. But I don't know... The name of the venue? Yep. I think if you just go to Patton's website you'll be able to find tickets to the... Well, the other thing about that, getting with him, is that it doesn't really matter if I plug the show. No, it doesn't. But people who want to see you, if it's not full, they would go. So that's a good thing. So for me, I got February 16th. I'm doing... Running my Melbourne show with Will Anderson at Tripany House at Steve Allen Theater. Tickets go to TripanyHouse.org. And then May... No, March, I think, 14th, the week of the 14th, Wednesday through Thursday, Wednesday through Saturday. I'm with Eddie Pepitone at the San Francisco Punchline. And March 7th, I think, could be the 9th. It could be whatever it is. Yeah, but go to the UCB Sunset Los Angeles Theater. And I am also running my Melbourne show. There I'll be doing it alone without Mr. Will Anderson, which is sad. That got sad right there. Sad. Well, then okay. And then I have a bunch of other gigs. I have a shitload of shitloads. Just go to DaveMathonyComedy.com. And that's where my... That's my website. And then I'll be in Long Beach at Harvelles on February 14th with Sam Tripoli. I will be at the Laugh Factory Tuesday this week at 6.30. And then February 16th, I will be... Or sorry, February 8th, I will be with Sam Tripoli doing a show called Loaded, so I'll update that on... You're on the show with me and Will Anderson. Yes, that is well. On February 16th. Yes. The year? Oh boy. 1788. Okay. The 80s. The need for medical education in America was quite evident in the 1700s. Okay. What? Okay. What? This is... Huh? Someone's fishing in a belly or something. Oh dear. Oh dear. Between 1758 and 1788, an estimated 3,500 physicians were in America. Of those, 63 doctors had studied abroad. That's like a legit... That's like saying 63 of those guys were actual doctors. Yeah. And the rest were like, we've susted out pretty well. I put shoes on a horse, I can take out your kidney. I put a shoe on his kidney. No. Oh God. Jesus Christ. Larry, only 10% of the 3,500 had actual degrees in medicine. Oh my God. Which as we know wasn't necessary to practice medicine in those days. Right. And you just said, I'm a doctor now. Yep. You basically got a sign and you hung it up outside your shop. Doctor! In 1700, physician Ebenezer Hershey gave an endowment of 1,000 pounds to Harvard College for the establishment of a professor of anatomy. Okay. Ebenezer. Yeah, Ebenezer Hershey. Hershey. Yeah. The chocolate, the guy wouldn't share his chocolate. Hamburg! Before this, a secret anatomic society had been started by Joseph Warren and his friends. It was eventually run by his brother John Warren and they were known as the Spunkers. Oh. Mm-hmm. Sure. The name was not supposed to be written or spoken aloud because the purpose was to obtain fresh cadavers for anatomical dissection. Oh boy. They used shovels as their main tool for gathering the cadavers. Okay. I'm really going to have a lot of questions. What does that mean? Does that just mean that they were just... They're digging them up. So they're just grave robbers? Yeah. Okay. No wonder the name changed. Spunkers? And also why they don't tell anybody. Yeah. This is a secret one. You're grave robbers. We're spunking. We're spunkers. We're the spunk problems. You want to go spunking tonight, Larry? It feels like grave robbing. It's spunking. Okay. In 1778, John Warren began giving informal exercises on anatomy at American Hospital. Because of the war, fresh cadavers were not in short supply. Love you. Many of the deaths were among patients who wore red coats, so the dissection of those cadavers concerned no one. That's nice. That's very nice. Cut them up. All right. On the one occasion of the discovery of an American soldier's body being dug up and used, there was public outcry. Oh, not one of Warren's. He matters. That one's a good one. He's a goodie. Warren's lectures became increasingly well attended. His talents became well known. In 1781, he was formally requested by the Boston Medical Society to present a series of lectures in anatomy. After this, the Harvard Corporation set up a committee to consider the establishment of medical professorships. And the seeds of Harvard Medical School were set. Here we are. All right. We've got our wear. Born of a body digger, snatcher. Yep. Good. Well, that's a great foundation. It's a good way to start a medical school. Yep. Digging up bodies and skunkers. Based on the carving of stolen bodies, Harvard, and he continued to always need bodies. At one point, Warren enlisted the help of an old family friend, John Revere, to procure bodies for dissection. John Revere put him in touch with a resurrection man named James Henderson. A resurrection man? That's what they're called, resurrection men. Great. John Revere was the son of Paul Revere. Oh, Jesus Christ. The bodies are here. The bodies are here. Fresh corpses in the ground. Come and get them. Fresh corpses. Get them all the nice and dead guys. In 1788, New York was home to only one medical school, Columbia College. Since those looking to practice medicine didn't have to graduate from a medical school, some students attended private not-for-credit classes at New York Hospital. Taught by Richard Bailey, a Connecticut-born doctor who had studied in London. Oh, God. He was one of the 63. Pointy-toity. Anatomical dissections were essential part of the classes and medical training in general, but they were considered offensive. Okay. Right? It was offensive to cut up a body. Sure. Well, okay. It was back religious to many of the religiousers. The religions? The religions. So right. So the people who have religion are like, don't cut up bodies. Leave them in the ground. We're Jesus' law. Lunatics. Yeah. So nobody's right. Nobody's right in this one. Now, Jesus needs them underground. No, we should cut them and use their parts. Didn't Jesus come out? Right, but they didn't cut them up. Don't you use our logic against us. In the winter of 1788, the city was enthralled with newspaper stories about medical students robbing graves to get bodies for dissection. I mean, okay. Have you seen the nick? A little bit. And yes. It goes on in there. Yeah. It's very great. Yeah, it is. It's lovely. It's a great show. Most of the bodies came from Potter's Field and the cemetery reserved for the city's blacks, known as the Negro's burial ground. So, okay, so they were mainly robbing black graves? Right. Because they don't matter. That's yes. Right. Okay. Welcome to America. Good times. While some of the newspaper reports were probably based on rumor, they pointed to an underlying truth. There was no regulated source of bodies for dissection, which caused medical students to take matters into their own hands and they began plundering the local graveyards. And the perpetrators of grave robbing were known as resurrectionists. That is so it's... It's such a better name. It's really like a... It's the first time we're putting a nice little spit shine on some bullshit. No, it's like the beginning of PC. I'm not a rapist. I'm a sex collector. I don't murder. I stop oxygen from going to brains. I'm a heaven and... I'm a heaven and gracey eater. With legal penalties and public disgrace at risk, resurrectionists had to work very quickly and finish the job in an hour or so. But wouldn't people even then be like... So if you got a body within an hour, then it was like, ah, they beat us at our own game. All right, you little scoundrels. All right, that's the funeral guys. Start the clock. Rules are rules, guys. Rules are rules. Once bodies came in, there was no way to preserve them, so they would have to cut them up quickly. Because bodies buried during the winter were better preserved, graves were generally robbed during the colder months between November and March. Often hang out till spring pop. No, in like August. Yeah. Like no one was getting those bodies. Just ripe and melted. He is hot. Hey, Larry, you vacationed in August again this year? Yeah, not a lot of work. Yeah, you know, I take August off because the body looks like melted cheese at that time. You know how I do it. Yeah, yeah, I got it. Often after the snow melted in the spring, the people in the city would find a cemetery full of holes. Oh. So they were just like, in the winter, don't go. Don't check. It's the honor system. Well, I'm sure they would just dig up the body and then cover it with the snow and then no one would know what happens. I mean, it really sounds like nobody put forth a little bit of effort to find out. There really wasn't. Yeah. Well, you'll see. A doctor described the work of resurrectionists. Two men, two large canvas turpilons, digging tools and a dark lantern to light the scene, but invisible from a distance were the essentials, so they had a low lamp. Yeah, right. Dirt was removed after silently breaking through the lid of the coffin. The corpse was hauled up. The body was then stripped of all clothing and wrapped in the other canvas. The clothes were thrown back into the coffin. The excavated dirt returned to the grave and its surface restored exactly to its prior appearance to disarm suspicion of tampering. That's in an hour. But is there any reason why they're getting them naked other than? I think that's just for the fun of it. Right, yeah. They make a game of it. That is true. They probably didn't have to think of it. Me on my first day. Hey, we got to get them naked, though. What? You know, all this time we're wasting on buttons, I feel that could be better another way. Just do it. Okay. You really double knotted these shoes. Get them off and get them nude. There's a lot of buttons. Get them off and get him nude. Okay, I just think. Oh, there we go. Now he's nice and naked. What's happening? Yeah. Come here. Kiss me. Oh, God. In February, a group of the city's free and enslaved blacks submitted a petition to the Common Council complaining of, quote, young gentlemen in this city who call themselves students of the psychic. I don't know why they said that. Maybe they didn't know what they were. Or it could be that my... It could be one of those things where autocorrect corrected something. But in that day, a black petition was basically a nothing. That's like spitting on the street. Yeah. It was a waste of paper. Excuse me. We are black men here to... Oh, okay. Yeah. Get out. Okay. Yeah. And quote, under the cover of night in the most wanton sallies of excess, dig up bodies of our deceased friends and relatives of your petitioners carrying them away without respect for age or sex. The petitioners didn't ask to a stop to the grave robbing. Only that it be conducted with a decency and... That's so fucked up. Which the occasion requires. So they were like, we're going to lose anyway. Just do it in a better way. Well, it just shows you the spectrum they had to play with at that time. Yeah. Well, we're not going to stop the grave robbing. Yeah. But maybe we could be a little sweeter about the bodies we're stealing. Can we not be horrible about it? Can we be a little cooler? Like the fucking clothes on. Get him naked. The petition was ignored because many in New York were willing to turn a blind eye to grave robbing as long as those bodies were poor and black. Cool people? Cool times. Yeah. But in truth, the resurrectionists would rob any grave they could find. The problem was so great in New York that wealthy families would pay a shotgun-wheeling watchman to stand guard over a new burial for two weeks after which time the body would become useless for dissection because it's super squishy. That's even... I mean, the idea that you can't have somebody on the ground two weeks. Well, yeah. Yeah, that's pretty fun. You're still grieving. Yeah, but... I miss my Harry. Oh, God, he's... His clothes. Oh, God, I really miss him. He's gone. Oh, God, he's just his clothes. No, I double miss him. Harry's naked somewhere. I think he's still alive. That was until February 21st, 1788 when the advertiser, newspaper, printed an announcement saying that a body of a white woman had been stolen from Trinity Churchyard. Suddenly, popular resentment began to boil over. All right. Not a white woman! As we know, that still goes on today. Yeah. Oh, my God, they kidnapped a white person? They abducted a little white person? Oh, my God, now that is too much. Pretty black people were killed. We're talking about a young white girl. This white girl's gone. It's not exactly known where the event began, but it is known it started outside of New York Hospital, where a group of boys playing in the grass saw something that upset them. In some reports, the boys saw a severed arm hanging out of one of the hospital windows to dry. What was upsetting them? Somebody's just making some arm jerky. I just... Yeah, but... Okay, so that rumor, I feel like we can dismiss because I'm not sure, number one, that you hang an arm up to dry at a window? My socks, the arm? Like in this time when you're trying to keep it down a little bit? Yeah. A little bit on the DL? What you doing? A red flag, sure. You probably don't hang an arm up on a window. You're accusing us of grave robbing on the arm? Oh, okay. You know what? That fell off a guy who came in here. Yeah. He was climbing and... I came off. Mm-hmm. Oh, the leg over there? Oh! And the corner of that also... The head in my hands? Well, listen. This is...there's a lot of people. You've got a lot of questions. Have you heard of falling off disease? I'm gonna need to see some ID. So in one of the stories, one of the boys climbed a ladder and peered into the dissecting room. Good call. Where a surgeon, John Hicks, waved the severed arm at him. Hello, boy! I mean, he was doing it as a... Okay, that I could see happening. Yes. That is what you're that... That is much closer to the truth. Yeah. Yeah, we're much closer. Hello! He's a little boy. He's like, hey! In another version, the boy's mother had recently died and John Hicks told the boy the arm had belonged to his mother yelling, this is your mother's arm! I just dug it up! So what... I feel like it's in between. I hope there's no more possible stories because they're getting worse. In this version of the tale, the boy ran off to tell the news to his father, a mason, who went to the cemetery and exhumed his wife, West Coffin. The grave was empty. The hole hadn't even been refilled and the coffin had been pried apart. Word soon spread through lower Manhattan and hundreds stormed the hospital carrying picks and shovels in the classic, classic mob. Yeah. Oh yeah. Picks and shovels. All right, we've got picks, shovels, who's torching? Well, really, hack! But they're also so lazy. It sounds like they're getting very lazy. By not covering... Yeah, I think they were. They're making it a bit... Yeah. Not filling the holes. Yeah. I'm so tired. Let's not fill this one in. I was thinking the exact same thing. Let's go get a beer. What's gonna happen? Let's get a beer. What could go wrong? Oh, God! The mob circled the large building and blocked the exits. The torch-carrying crowd cried to lynch the doctors inside and might have, except that most of them escaped out the rear windows. This was the beginning of America's first riot. Oh. The doctor's mob riot of 1788. Oh, keep doping. Colonel William Heth, writing in a letter to Governor of Virginia Edmund Randolph, described what happened when the men got to the hospital. A cry of barbarity and etc. was soon spread. I love that he uses barbarity and then can't think of another colorful word and just uses etc. Barbarity and... That was a really good word, wasn't it? Didn't I nail that word? The cry of barbarity and etc. was soon spread. The young sons of Gallon, a poetic allusion to physician in ancient Greece, so he's smart enough to fucking throw in a description using an ancient Greek doctor. Right. I'm impressed with this letter already. The young sons of Gallon fled in every direction. One took refuge in a chimney. The mob raised and the hospital apartments were ransacked. In the anatomy room were found three fresh bodies, one boiling in a kettle and two others cut up with certain parts of the two sexes hanging up in a most brutal position. Now... I'm gonna need you to break that down. Okay, so they kick in the door of the anatomy room. Yes, one is? One. One guy there making soup out of. One guy's liking a daffy duck cartoon. Smell is awesome. Oh yeah, that's real good. But that's clearly a great experiment. Hey, what do you want to do with this one? Do you want to boil it or...? Make tea out of him, huh? Let's see what a tea is like. But my question is this next one. Okay. Does that mean the or... The other two were cut up with certain parts of the two sexes hanging up in a most brutal position. So I assume that they were like dicks on meat hooks. I don't know how else to take that. Okay, because that's what I was picturing were dicks on meat hooks. I've seen the play dicks on meat hooks. Oh, God. It is so good. The circumstances together with the wanton and apparent inhuman complexion of the room set the mob beyond all bounds to the total destruction of every anatomy in the hospital. So they just went through and tore everything. The one who relays the information. What did you see in there? They got one guy in a god damn kettle. Motherfucker, go shut up. It gets worse. And then there's a bunch of dicks on hooks. He said they got him in a kettle and what? Dicks on hooks. And they got dicks on hooks. You guys hear that in the back? And that's when the play writes like, I've got an idea. Although most of the doctors, like I said, fled when the workmen appeared, a handful remained to try and guard the valuable collection of anatomical and pathological specimens. But their efforts were in vain. Quote, some of the mob forced the way into the dissecting room, several human bodies were found, and various states of mutilation enraged at the discovery. They seized upon the fragments as heads, legs and arms and exposed them from the windows and doors to public view. That is riot food right there. Look what we found! Just holding the head out the window. I told you they did this to Gary. And then the crowd's like, ahhh. Also there's dicks on hooks. We're grabbing a couple of the dicks. Get tight! I mean, to be fair, like if you're like a guy from the late 1700s, this is like some crazy witchcraft shit. Oh! Like this is like just hell on earth. Yes, yes, definitely. The specimens were dragged down into the street and set ablaze. Well, there you go. Interesting moves on the mob's part. Slight hypocrisy. Sure. I mean, you would, you think, put them in a wheelbarrow and take them back up to the cemetery and, you know, bury them again or set them a fire in the middle of the road. Let's cook them! What do you boys say? Human bonfire! We want to honor their spirit. So we're going to burn them in the town center. Dr. Richard Bailey and his protege, Right Post, were about to be, who names their kid Right Post? I mean, I mean, how does that... Son, you're going to be a serial. What is that? Right Post. Right Post. We're about to be thrown in the fire themselves, but Mayor James Dwayne and the sheriff arrived in order the doctors and medical students escorted to jail for their own protection. Okay. The mob was looking for vengeance and doctors as they moved from street to street, which is hilarious. Hey, are you a doctor? No. You sure? Yeah. I work as a writer. Get him! The crowd searched John Hicks' home and at the home of another prominent physician, they looked for John Hicks, sorry, and they would have found him, but they did not look in the attic. You got to look in the attic. You're not a good mob. Who doesn't look in the attic? The attic's where you go. If you're a mob, you go into the basement in the attic. Yeah. That's where everyone's in. Closets, attic, basements. Yeah. And under beds. They were in the attic, but the anger simmered and the next morning it was back on. A mob ran around the city searching for doctors, medical students, and bodies. Hundreds descended on Columbia College. Alumni Alexander Hamilton pleaded with the crowd from the school's front steps to stop, but it had no effect. I love how there is in every single one of our stories, one of the greats just pops up. It's just the, hello! It's just great cameos. Yeah, that's right. It's like they were 500 people in America. He was shouted down and pushed past and the crowd ran into the school where they searched for the anatomical theater, museum, chapel, library, and even students' bedrooms for signs of dissections. The doctors that did not flee town then sought refuge in the jail. They did not find bodies because the medical students had to remove them the previous night, which that's why you don't take the night off. If someone comes in and goes, hey man, they're trying to kill doctors and they're dragging the bodies we use in the street and burning them, you go, hey, let's... I'm going to turn in. I'm beat. I'm bushed. No, I was thinking we should hide the body. I'll tell you what. I don't know what is with my sleep schedule lately. Let's call it... Buy the beat from all that body cutting. After finding no bodies, the mob searched doctors' private homes, including Bailey's, but they could not find a body or evidence of one being cut up. This mob is very insane. Yeah. The mob made sure to analyze and loot the residences, though. Governor George Clinton... Ah, P. Funk....came in on his funk ship. And his governor assistant, Bootsy Collins... This is how... This is actually... The story we're getting to is how Funkadelic was born. Oh my God, I did not see this coming. Governor George Clinton called out the state militia, but the mob increased and the rioting went on for four days. Wow. At one point, the crowd surrounded the jail. Governor Clinton, Mayor Duane, and other prominent politicians urged them to stop, but the crowd refused and swelled into an estimated 5,000. Armed with rocks, bricks, and timber torn from the nearby gallows, they finally attacked the jail yelling out, Bring out your doctors! Wow. This is the most backwards thing that's ever happened. It really is. It's a strange time to be like, I'm not a doctor. No, I would hate... No, I don't know. I'm a cobbler. Inside the medical students used the rocks and bricks thrown at them to fend off their attackers. One of the rioters climbed inside the jail through a ground floor window only to be killed by a guard that just further infuriated the rioters outside. They're not making a lot of right moves. That's what I would have loved, like a guy goes in and you kill him and they're like, Oh look at you killing one! We're trying to kill you, you can't kill us! Then the doctors are operating on him as he's dead. Quick, cut him up! I think we're on different pages. Let's see what's going on with the appendix! How did he die? You saw him get bludgeoned! No, it might have been his heart. I think it's something to do with his penis, put him on a hook. Let's cut him up, put him in a kettle. Cut up some carrots. Take a meal of him! The militiamen attempted to calm the mob, although they had strict orders not to fire their muskets. But things went from bad to worse. Secretary of Foreign Affairs John Jay got his skull almost cracked with a rock. That's a quote. And the revolutionary war hero General Baron Von Stuben, that's a... Spoiled for sure. Yeah, oh yeah. A Von Stuben? Fucking another Von Stuben. He was hit in the head with a brick. At which point the militiamen decided they would fire their musket. Oh, interesting twist. You know what, let's start shooting, I think. Yeah, they just hit Von Stuben in the head with a brick, so it's on! Not Von Stuben! It's on! In the madness, at least eight rioters and three members of the militia were killed with the final death toll estimated as high as 20. The doctors then came out and treated the wounded. Okay. So they're coming out because they're doctors. And they come out and they're a guy with a shot in the shoulder and then they're like going in their treaty and they're going, you know, the reason I know how to do this is because I dig up bodies. You just fixed this arm so I can stab you, motherfucker. Okay, but the reason I know how to do it is because we dig up bodies and then I... Just fix my arms so I can kill you! Okay. Don't wanna kill him! Okay. In the following days, local newspapers stopped running their ads for doctors and medical classes. Why? They really went to the cemetery to inspect graves of their loved ones and found armed groups known as Dead Guard Men to protect the cemeteries. It's like a neighborhood watch group. Yeah. Except it's their bodies. But like naming your group is a real hit or miss in this time. It's either bananas or it's just so literal and long. It's just dying for an acronym. Yeah, this one. Well, we're part of the DGM. You're the DGM! Today at the Museum of Morning Art at the Arlington Cemetery in Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania, there is a cemetery gun. At the time, the cemetery gun also acted as a night watchman. The gun was mounted on a mechanism that allows it to spin freely. Cemetery keepers set it up at the foot of the grave with three tripwires strung in an arc around its position. A hopeful resurrection man stumbling over the tripwire in the dark would trigger the gun and be shot. Okay. That sounds very... Well, why are you at a cemetery at night? Yeah, but don't... But how hard is it to step over it? Well, I don't think you can see it in the dark while you got your little lamp. You got your little lamp that no one else... I'm sure it's hidden by shrubs or body parts. Yeah, but eventually people are like, hey, they've got these fucking weird guns on the graves now. Okay. I'd be curious. Of course, resurrection men evolved to meet this challenge. Yes. Some would send women posing as widows, carrying children and dressed in black to case the gravesites during the day and report the locations of cemetery guns and other defenses. Okay. There we go. Cemetery keepers... A little undercover work. Yeah. Cemetery keepers in turn learned to wait to set the guns up after dark, thereby preserving the element of surprise. So it's a tit and tat. It's on. The guns were rented by the week and were quite expensive, creating just one more reason poor people's graves were robbed. Oh, god. Okay. So we have the 2000 and you're going to want a gun? I'm sorry? A gun so they don't dig it up. I don't think we can afford a gun. Well, we can rent it to you for just a little bit. I... For say, 80 bucks for the week. It's a lot of money. I know it is, but do you want your... Do you want Gloria's head to be cut up and used as a little bit of... We'll pay. We'll figure it out. We'll pay. Do you guys have payment plans? Yeah, we can break it down. That'd be great. Okay, terrific. The guns were rented by the week and were quite expensive. Oh, I already said that. Around the country that meant black people, criminals, prostitutes, the Irish, freaks, manual laborers, indigenous and Indians. The Irish freaks? No, Irish and freaks. Oh, okay. Sorry, I didn't mean to clump those together. We've discovered who the freaks were last week. Well, yeah, we know that. I mean, we've heard about the freaks. So yeah, the Irish are in there with the blacks, the criminals, the prostitutes, the freaks, the manual laborers, the indigenous and the Indians. Just the Irish. Yeah, the Irish. I can't believe the Irish took over New York. Hard to believe why that happened. What was it about the situation that made them feel like they had to do that? After the New York riot, many of the city's most prominent physicians, including Bailey, published notices saying that they had never robbed any cemetery in any city nor asked anyone else to do so. The key part of that statement was in any city because the Negroes burial ground in Potterfield had been established outside of the city grounds. So they're using a little, yeah, they're political. Yeah, it's a little political, a little legalese. A grand jury investigated the riot, but there's no record of anyone being convicted. Nevertheless, the reputation of the medical profession in New York was tainted for years. The New York doctor's riot was just one of many anatomy riots that hit the United States in the 18th and 19th century. Many anatomy riots. Many. Like they were like, okay, they were a lot. Medical historian Michael Salop has counted at least 17 anatomy riots between 1765 and 1854. What? In New Haven, Baltimore, Cleveland and Philadelphia, these riots were sparked by anger over dissections and grave robbing. People saw grave robbing as an affront to the honor of the dead. People are so weird. In the sacred nature of graveyards and dissection frightened many Christians who believe that only complete bodies could be resurrected. All right. Well, we're not on either camp. Let's say that there's a nice middle. There's a nice middle. Yeah, I'm not gonna take a side. Yeah, you can't rob graves. That's right. Because otherwise they can't be resurrected. Well, don't help me make my argument. Okay, you're not on my side. Don't help me. Don't help me right now. But the riot did have other long lasting effects. It led to one of the earliest medical licensing systems in the colonies in which would be doctors had to apprentice with a respected physician or attended or attend two years of medical school in addition to passing rigorous government exams. No longer would medical students simply attend a couple of classes and hang out their shingle in a small town of state. So that's good. That is good. And just to be clear, it was not good. In response to these riots, anatomy acts, also known as bone bills, were passed great names to legislate the supply of cadavers. Okay. The year after the doctor's riot, the New York legislature passed an act. It's a long one. An act to prevent the odious practice of digging up and removing for the purpose of dissection dead bodies interred in cemeteries or burial places. How about just that's the name of the bill to respect the dead? Yeah. What about that? Don't dig them up. Yeah. Like just cadaver decency bill. But a little brevity is on the asking for. Just shorten it. Shorten it a tiny bit. The odious. Take out the word odious. The odious. That's what you're leading with. How about just prevent the digging up of bodies for dissection? Yeah. They just, they need editors in this naming process. And they put dead bodies in here as if that needed to be cleared. Yeah, right. Oh, yeah. The living. Oh, this isn't for live bodies. Somebody's getting dragged out. What are you doing? Excuse me. Get your hands off of me. You heard the new law. The act outlawed grave robbing and provided that criminals executed for murder, arson, or burglar would be sentenced to dissection after death. I love that we were killing people for burglar. I love that. It's so. Burglary. You stole a silver fork? Yeah. But you don't. What? You're dead. Oh, no. And then we're going to cut up your body. But then I can't resurrect. We're going to put it in a kettle. We're going to make convict stew. But it wasn't effective. There weren't nearly enough bodies of executed criminals to satisfy demand. Don't. Huge demand. Well, how could there be that? You know, many criminals you'd have to have. Well, I'm just worried. Yeah, I would just worry at that point that there would just be like a judge with like a little bit of saliva in his mouth like guilty. I said, it's you to death. You got a judge who's like close with a guy at a hospital. Yeah. Yeah. I can put a couple of ways this week. Sure. What's your crime? Well, I didn't pay for my saloon bill. Death. Excuse me. Death. Excuse me. Kill him. Right here. Jay walking. Right here. And then just go ahead and throw the body out the back door. Excuse me. It'll be taken care of. Pardon? That's my order. I slapped my wife. Well, you're going to die. Well, that's it for you. Sorry. Medical students continue to rob graves, although more discreetly than before. That's nice. Nice of them. But because of Saloon, isn't that what the black organization was asking for? Yeah, but yeah, come on. Don't bring them up. They weren't right. Because of slavery, Southern medical schools considered themselves at a distinct advantage over Northern schools in offering opportunities for clinical experience and anatomical training. Covenant that the public opinion was in their favor, medical schools in the South advertised to potential students by claiming they had access to an ample supply of dead bodies. Because these bodies were drawn from the colored population, the individuals made no protest. You know, this is, okay, here's a little amazing wrinkle in all of this. The idea that black people were so inferior and so different and yet literally had the exact same makeup inside as everyone else. Right. That's the insane part. Yeah. And they're saying that black people make the perfect specimen to cut up because they're exactly the same. Inside. And yet, and yet totally worthy of being cut up because they're black. Because their skin's different. It's a little, there's a little bit of a wrinkle in this plan. It's a little, it's a little weird. It's a little, I think when you reflect it's a little strange. It doesn't make a lot of sense. There were, however, ways around these laws. One example was what occurred from 1835 until 1913 at the Medical College of Georgia. Their students dissected cadavers as part of their training. Corpses were illegally unearthed from graveyards, preserved in whiskey before being dissected by the students. Well, because then you could, you could get drunk like you could sip a little bit and then cut and sip a little and cut. Right. Just keep a shot glass in. A little for the doctor. Scoop it out for the body. A little for medical history. A little for medical history. You? That's where the hiccup was invented. I've invented the hiccup. After some of the remains were converted into treasures for the school's anatomical collection while others were dumped into the basement and covered in quick lime to hide the stench. I mean your basement. Just covered, just, that was the plan? Yeah, they put the bodies down. So just hoarded pieces? Just covered in lime. Put a lime on that. And I'd soon close the door. I would help. Close, yeah. The guy who's like, so which one's the bathroom? Mine! Oh, good God! Do not go in there. Oh, shit in there! Whoever was the last guy in there is very ill. One man in particular was responsible for the bodies in the basement. Grandesson Harris was a resurrection man, although his official title at the hospital was Porter and Janitor. Harris was a large and powerful slave. He was purchased in Charleston, South Carolina on an auction block in 1852 jointly by all seven members of the school's medical faculty. So they were having like a little like, I mean I think we should go with this guy. I think this guy would be a great grave robber. We all signing off? Can I ask him one question? Yes. Do you like dead bodies? Yes. Oh, okay, he'd be perfect. Okay, he'd be great, yeah, yeah. A little grave robbing and human dissection was illegal in Georgia for much of the 19th century, unless of course the cadaver was from an executed criminal. Harris's slave status protected him from arrest. Okay, so wait a minute. Yeah, we found another one. We found another crazy white racist loophole. That is the loophole? Because he's a slave, he apparently, because he doesn't count as a person, then he for some whatever reason, he could dig up dead bodies. All this just really reminds me of the political system so much. Hey, I have a question. Has anybody read this law? This is pretty crazy. It's really fucked up. It's a really weird loophole. There's, okay, I guess we'll just have slaves digging up bodies. Are you sure we want to go with this? Yes, because they're not people. Therefore they're not committing a crime. Cool? Okay, I feel weird. Am I supposed to feel weird? No. Okay. Yep, you're in the right time. I feel weird. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah, I mean really, what else can you say? The members of the medical faculty taught Harris to read and write, which was also illegal at the time. Of course. They didn't do this because they thought it was the right thing to do or out of guilt. No, they taught Harris to read and write so that he could monitor the local funeral. Funeral announcements to steal bodies. They also pushed him to train his memory to mentally capture the flower arrangements on a grave so that he could recreate them perfectly after his midnight body runs. So they're good doctors. Yeah, I love the idea that he, now don't you use any of these skills for yourself now. Don't you go learning. Don't you go learning. Don't you go wising up on us now, Harris. You only read funeral announcements. You only read in tombstones and remembered flowers. He preferred to work in Cedar Grove Cemetery, which was reserved for Augusta's impoverished black residents. His home club. Impoverished and black residents. So also, also just poor. It could be poor white people. Oh, that's nice. Also, there was no fence around that cemetery. So that's easy. Yes. Poor blacks were buried in plain pine coffins, which were nicknamed toothpicks. Nice. That's cool. His routine at Cedar Grove was simple. He entered late at night and would dig down to the upper end of a fresh grave. He would then smash the surface of the coffin with an axe, reach in and haul the body out. Then he would toss the body into a sack and take it to a waiting wagon and cover up his work before setting off for the medical school. The students at the Medical College of Georgia liked Harris and not just because he was bringing them dead bodies. In addition to getting cadavers, Harris became a de facto teaching assistant who helped out during dissections. Well, of course he did because he was around all the time. Yeah, he was watching it. He knew it better than they fucking did. If they're not careful, Dave, they might educate this black guy. Real pitfall. How are we going to stop from educating this black guy in a school? God damn it. It's a real catch-22. It really is. Reportedly, students often felt more comfortable with Harris than with their professors. But the college students also liked to play pranks. The former, the school's former dean, Dr. Eugene Murphy, told how after one midnight run, Harris went from the great VR to a saloon for a drink. Two students who had been watching Harris walked over to his wagon and pulled the corpse from the sack. One of the students then climbed into the sack himself. So I want to break this down before we go further with the break. Well, I feel like I know where we're headed. Two guys are so comfortable with bodies that they just took one out of a bag on the street without even thinking about it. And then one of them climbed into the sack where the gross dead body had just been and then he just sat there and waited. Good fucking times. And punked. Punking was invented. Got you. Oh yeah, I guess you did. You should see the look on your face, man. It's horror. Yeah, yeah, man. You were in a bag. You told me. No, you were in a bag where there was a body. Oh my God. There was a body in the bag. You were so freaked. I still am. Oh my God, dude. That was it. That was, you're not going to be able to get even on that one. I don't want to be your friend anymore. I don't want to be your friend. Anyway, I don't know where the real body is. Okay. All right. Good one. Thanks. When Harris returned to the wagon, the student moaned, Grandson, Grandson, I'm cold. Buy me a drink. Like he was with body. Yeah. Grandson replied, you buy your own damn drink. I'm getting out of here. It was he being funny or was he? I'm not sure if he was saying fuck off or if he was talking to the body. Or if he was just like, whoops, took a living one. Either way, it's not, it doesn't end as a great prank. Nobody wins. Nobody wins. Yeah. When the Civil War ended, a newly free Harris moved across the Savannah River to the tiny town of Hamburg, South Carolina and became a judge. Okay. What? But after resurrection failed and Jim Crow became the law of the South, Harris returned to dissection labs as a full-time employee. Okay. So he had a run. He went, like he's like, all right, shit's all fucking starting. It's all good now. Yeah. And then he went over there and became a judge and then they were like, oh, we're going to make laws that make you totally fucked. So then he was like, oh, go back. All right, I'll go back to. I'll go back to a dead person. I got the trade. The students then saw him as disloyal to the South and therefore derisively called him judge. There's so much. Everybody's just out of their fucking tits. There's so many bad things about America in the story. Yeah. There's not one person who's right. Nobody's right. He's saying the story doesn't have a hero. There's no hero. No, there's no hero. I mean, while the doctors, I guess, well, no, pretty gnarly. No, I mean, at least they have a noble. Their idea in mind. They're trying to pardon the pun. Their hearts in the right place, but still. Sometimes the heart isn't. Sometimes the heart is on the floor. But sometimes the guy's eating the heart. Sometimes they're playing baseball with the heart. Harris was a man between two worlds. He was big. He could read and write, had a secure job, and wore proper gentlemen's clothing. A Panama straw hat in the summer, a derby in the winter, and always a boutonnere. Oh, a boutonnere. It was the bell on Sunday. Members of Augusta's black community say he, through great parties, attended by the elite of the local black society, and he was a member of the influential colored Knights of Pythias. See, there's a name. A Masonic secret society started in 1880 by light-skinned blacks who borrowed the rituals of the white Knights of Pythias order. So. But even the light-skinned blacks were racist? Yeah, it's all fucked up. Yeah. Oh, yeah, the light-skinned blacks were racist against the dark-skinned. You gotta have so many levels of racism. But he wasn't loved by local blacks, J. Philip Waring, a retired administrator of the Urban League, said, quote, local blacks feared him because they did not know who he was going to dig up next. He was feared in the, I don't want to say supernatural, but anyone who goes out and digs up bodies and gets away with it and makes money and the medical college promoted him and what have you, what kind of person was this? Fair. So goes the life of a resurrection man. Yes, yes. In 1887, Georgia passed a law that was supposed to provide a steady stream of unclaimed bodies to the state medical schools. So they probably legally did something where it was the criminal thing, but then also maybe a percentage of blacks or something. I couldn't find what the law was, but they clearly, you know. Just a Frankenstein of shady tactics. Perfect. Yeah, it's the Frankenstein law. Yeah. Which, yeah. You get it. It's not far away from what they're doing anyway. This law, if successful, would have destroyed Harris' career. Well, that's a bummer. Yeah. Man. Think about Harris. Yeah. Think about this one guy. Are we going to make this law and put body snatchers out of business? Think about judge. But the law didn't produce as many bodies as needed. And so Harris' services continued. He not only grabbed graves, but began to help purchase cadavers of the poor who died in prisons, hospitals, and elsewhere. See? So. Just all very fun and cute. Cut out the middleman thing. As Granison aged, his son George took on more of his responsibilities, although George wasn't the same worker as father was. By 1904, the lab had started to emit a filthy odor. Okay, so, I mean, we're talking 20 odd, maybe 30 years. Add some more lime. Of just body tossing down in the basement. Nobody. Nobody thought at some point to dig a hole somewhere else. Well, that is, I mean, that really is amazing. That's like, that's kind of like us with like landfills. It'll be good. It'll be good. It's the laziest part of the story. Yeah. Just keeping them in the basement without a thought of what is going to happen. And the board of health conducted an investigation. Inspectors reported tobacco droppings all over the floor and alongside scraps from dissection, old rags and a neglected vat full of bones. Lead with the bones. Lead with the bones? Well, they, yeah, they're like, well, there's so many horrible things. We found tobacco. No, scraps from dissection is not a good thing. No, but tobacco on the floor is not really something that can go toe to toe. No, okay. Well, tobacco droppings all over the floor is not a great thing in a hospital. No, but you have a basement of limbs. I know. That's true. It's like, if I, if I stab you in the heart, you're like, my skin, no, your heart, your heart, my skin hurts, my skin. The following year, the university gave Harris a pension and replaced him with his son. In 1908, Granison returned to the school for a last lecture instructing the students on the fauna points of grave robbing. I mean, he died in 1911 and was buried in Cedar Grove and a son dug him up and cut him apart. They not, if there was, if this story had a great ending, he would have been dug up and cut apart. Yes. Sometimes the elite of America were affected. John Scott Harrison is the only person to be both the child and parent of a U. S. president. His father, William Henry Harrison was the ninth president of the U. S. and his son, Benjamin Harrison, was the 23rd president of the United States. Okay. Sadly, Harrison did not live to see his son become president. He died on May 25th, 1878. He was buried in the William Henry Harrison tomb state in Memorial in North Bend, Ohio with his parents and other family members. Because of the fear of resurrection, many precautions were taken to secure Harrison's grave, including building a cemented brick vault, filling the grave with earth mixed with heavy stones, and employing a watchman to check the grave each hour of every night for a week. Okay. So you would think secure. The day of Harrison's funeral, it was discovered that the body of young Augustus Devon, which had been buried the previous week in an adjoining grave, had been stolen. The next day, future president of the United States, Benjamin Harrison and a friend of Devon, traveled to Cincinnati to look for his body in the medical community. With search warrants in hand, they went to the Ohio Medical College, where they discovered not Devon's body, but the naked body of John Scott Harrison hanging from a rope down a chute beneath the trapdoor. Oh my God. Oh wait, there's Dad. I thought he was in the tomb. Did we not hire a guy? You guys move fast. Holy shit. That has to be very traumatic. When we start building cars, we gotta get you guys on the car line, because you guys are crazy fast. That's it. I'm gonna be president. Well, I've had enough of this. That's it. I'll be president. You sir are looking at a future president. Devon's body was later found preserved in Nevada, Brian, at the Meadow College of the University of Michigan. Good fucking God. What the fuck? Go blue. Yeah. Go black. After the Harris. Wolverines. After the Harrison episode, an American named Philip K. Clover of Columbus, Ohio invented what was known as the coffin torpedo. Dave. Yes. More anxious. I could not be. The patent of the idea in 1878 US patent number 206-8672. The coffin torpedo would go off when a coffin was opened. It was a shotgun type device that would shoot several balls at anyone who uncovered it. Oh, wow. In 1881, Thomas Howell, a former probate judge began selling his grave torpedo, a shell packed with gunpowder that would explode when disturbed. At least three men died in a Knox County, Ohio graveyard in 1881 when one grave torpedo ignited killing them. That's great though. If you're like one of the guys with him on the mission who lives, you're like, well, I don't even have to dig tonight. Take my friends. Yeah. Hey, no, Jimmy, you get in there first. Take a look. But that also could have killed the guys setting it up. We don't know if those are grave robbers or guys like... Oh, God, that's fun too. Yeah. The guys are like, all right, I think it's almost... They're like, wow. And it wasn't the same for the poor who couldn't afford a coffin or a bomb. Right. The poor couldn't afford coffin torpedoes? No. Shocking. Freedom's Journal, an African-American newspaper, instructed its readers on how to create a cheap mort safe, a complex contraption of rods and plates that protected the coffin. According to the journal, family members should quote, as soon as the corpse is deposited in the grave, let a truss of long wheat and straw be opened and distributed in layers, as equally as may be with every layer of earth until the hole is filled up. But this method, by this method, the corpse will be eventually secured. This contraption ensured that the longest night will not afford time to empty the grave. So for whatever reason, layering it like that would make it harder to dig into. But I love that it's so fucked up with blacks in America that they have to, in their newspapers, tell people how to make their graves so that they won't be dug up and carved apart. Fun times. However, most would just leave items like a stone or a blade of grass or a shell to show whether the grave would have been tampered with or not. The public hanging of 39 Dakota warriors in the aftermath of the Dakota War of 1862. Sorry, after that. So they had a public hanging of a bunch of Dakota warriors. Sorry, he's great. Yeah. A group of doctors removed the bodies under the cover of darkness from the riverside grave and divided the corpses amongst themselves. Hey, you want the long hair guy? I got the short hair guy and the three smaller ones. All right, who wants to be captains? Let's pick some captains and then we'll pick teams. Okay, pick teams. You know what? I've been Robin Gray for like 20 years, so I'd like to be a captain. I really feel like I'm good at identifying which cadavers we can cut up the best, so I want to be a captain. Okay, you're cool. I'm going to start with Jeff. I'll go Randy. No, Paul. Paul. Okay, I'll take Paul then. No, I just called Paul. I think that's Randy. You want, okay, I'll Randy. Oh, dude, I'm putting together an all-star team over here. Yeah. We're going to fucking kill you. I don't want Bert. No, you're not going to take him? I don't want Bert. He can barely hold a shovel. He can't even pick up a box. Fucking, I'll take Bert. I don't give a fuck. Really? I'll take him. I don't give a fuck. All right, we got teams, guys. All right, guys, go crazy. Oh, God. Dr. William Warrell-Mio. What would it be like to have a conversation with a doctor in this day? If you were at a dinner party and you wanted to just pick a doctor's brain for a moment. No, I would recommend not picking a doctor's brain. Yeah, right. Sorry. Yeah, it's wrong terminology. Dr. William Warrell-Mio received the body of a warrior called Cuttnose and dissected it in the presence of other doctors. He then cleaned the skeleton and kept the bones in an iron kettle in his office. His sons, who both became doctors, received their first lessons in the study of bones from the skeleton in a kettle in his office. William-Mio and his two sons are best known for establishing the private medical practice that later evolved into the Mayo Clinic. So that's where the best medical care came from. Holy shit. Surgeons pushed on with the idea that bodies were very important for the medical profession, like the European counterparts, American anatomists, and their supporters aggressively promoted the idea that an anatomical dissection of the dead was necessary to save the lives of the living. They argued that physicians and surgeons needed an intimate knowledge of the internal body, or doctors would lack the necessary skills to render effective medical treatment to society. But because many Christians believed in the idea of bodily resurrection after death, the section was often viewed as a fate worse than death. The close association between medical institutions and dissections led many poor whites as well as African Americans to view doctors with suspicion. Added to their fears was the fact that many European and American medical practitioners had also publicly justified the use of human experimentation, saying there were necessary evils if medicine was to advance. The threat of being violated on a dissection table lingered up and into the 20th century in the African American community, which had been especially targeted by the resurrectionists. These fears gave birth to a new folklore. Stories about night doctors became common. Most of these stories highlighted doctors who murdered and kidnapped their victims for human experimentation. These stories led many African Americans to see hospitals not as havens for the sick, but rather as places where torture and experiments occurred. Disrection men eventually met their enemy in refrigeration. I'm sorry? Once they could refrigerate the bodies, they didn't have to cut them up as quickly and they could take more time. Oh shit. And actually work and... Uh... You okay? Good God. Well you ever had surgery of any kind? In moles. I've had a mole removed. Anybody in your family have surgery? Yeah. Yeah, what? Yeah, they have. Well the reason that that happened was because a long time ago, I used to dig up bodies and take it out of cemetery. Well you can't like... Call it down the road. I... Like nobody's right. That's the problem with this story. Nobody is right. Where they weren't... I would say the doctors were right. They...I would know. Because if you were a family member of somebody who wanted to... I mean especially... Who gives a shit? Well... The body gets dug up. Like it's a body. I look, I agree. I agree. But I also, I think you can understand the idea that like we just buried Pop Pop. Can we have a couple weeks with him in the ground? I think that's a fair argument. You can't because then he's Pop Pop Meltz. Yeah, but then so I'm sorry. He's our Pop Pop. Okay? Hands off our Pop Pop. It's...it is... I don't even know what who wins. I mean... Well who wins? I mean no, I know who wins. I know who wins now. The future won. I know who wins now. The future won. Yeah, but nobody won then. I think we can all agree that the past in America was horrible. Horrible? Can you imagine a world where you're just... Seeing graves robbed? Dead naked bodies? You gotta buy a gun to... You gotta be... You've gotta kind of have a fucking coffin torpedo? That's an invention? That's what would go on that day's Shark Tank or Dragon Den? Well, you know, grave robin's a huge issue. And I'll show you what I have here, the coffin torpedo. Alright, get in there Barbara. Show my works. Oh God. Uh, disgusting. Thank you. Just disgusting. Thank you. Bones making... hanging dicks on hooks. Yeah. It's all good. I would... listen, this is what I would say. I would just not want to be one of the dick hooks. I don't want to be... Yeah, I wouldn't want to be on a dick hook, but you can cut me up for her. I mean, when I die, I'm gonna be... Look, have fun with me when I'm gone. I don't give a fuck. Yeah, take all the parts. I'm good. But let's just don't cut my dick off and put it on a hook. Well, that might happen before you die. Excuse me? This is the dollop. We're on Facebook. Facebook, backwards slash the dollop. I'm curious what you were saying about the... What's the iTunes address? Uh... We have a direct iTunes address, which is iTunes, backwards slash the dollop. Yes. Um, which is pretty cool that we got that. But is my... you said... insinuating that my dick might be on a hook before? And we're also on Twitter at... I'm dead? At the... at the dollop. And if you want to send a suggestion, you can send it to the dollop podcast at Gmail. There's also a Reddit, but I do worry about your, uh, prognostication that my penis will end up... Yeah, we do have a Reddit, uh... On a hook. A subreddit. Before I die? Yeah. All right, thanks for listening, everybody. I don't think I can do this anymore. Thanks for listening. Uh... I'm...