 Welcome to the dollop. My name is Dave Anthony. This is an American History podcast each week. I read a story from American History to my friend, Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is about. Boy, howdy. All right. Don't he know. What? What's a book? Excuse me? I don't know what books are. You can clearly see my books. I have a lot of books right there. My name is Gary. No, I would never say that. Gary, huh? Do you like lemons? I don't even... It's spot on. It's a spot on impression. It's not good. And it's Gareth. God, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickle you, quad guys. Okay. You are queen fakie of made up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do a thing. Hi, Gary. No. I see you've done, my friend. No. No. Okay, so this one is going up on Wednesday. Dates, Will Anderson and I will be at the Tripini House at the Steve Allen Theater on February 16th. We will be doing that show with young Gareth Reynolds here opening for us. And we're going to be running our Melbourne... Melbourne. I keep blowing it. I actually worked on festival shows. And then on the 9th of February, which is before that, we will be doing a live Tofop event with everybody from Tofop people. Kershawn, Kirkman, me, you, Will at Meltdown. On the 12th, I'll be doing set list at Bar Lubitz. Lubitz. I've never been there. The 25th of February, I'll be doing Meltdown. And on, I guess the big one, March 7th, I'll be doing my one man show at UCB on Sunset. Hot. The UCB Theater. Hot show. 23rd, I'll be doing Hot Tub. 19th. Call me Palace. 11th through the 14th, I'll be at the San Francisco Punchline with Eddie Pepitone. So that's a bunch of gigs. So then tonight, I will be with Pat Nozwalt and Berkley somewhere. And then on the 14th, Valentine's Day, I'll be with Sam Tripoli at Harvells and Long Beach. And on February 8th, I'll be doing a show called Loaded with Sam Tripoli. So I'm gonna. Loaded. Excuse me. Emma Snodgrass. Cool. Strong. Was a pretty petite 17 year old. At some point, she moved to Boston, where she was living in the fall of 1852 when she was discovered wearing pants and a frock coat. Her audacious pranks turned the heads of the Boston editors, reported the daily dispatch of Richmond, Virginia. Emma made good copy. In the space of two and a half weeks, the Boston Herald ran five news items about the young woman wearing pants. Controversy. On November 15th, the Herald reported Emma Snodgrass had been quote, visiting places of amusement around Boston in trousers. The New York Daily Times reported what a whore on November 30th, 1852 that Emma Snodgrass was caught donning the breeches. She'd called herself George Green and had gotten a job as a clerk at a clothing establishment of John Simmons and Company. The police arrested her, took her to the station, and her brother was sent to retrieve her. He took her back to her father, who was said to be a respectable city official in New York. You have a question, we'll look on your face. Yes. She got hired as a man. Is that okay? She poses a man. So she poses a man and got hired and got arrested for wearing pants and pretending to be a man. Okay, just wanted to make sure we're on the same page. She got a job at a place where she was selling pants. She was a big pace. I mean, this should be called the pants. The pant fanatic. The fan panic. Prior to the middle of the 20th century, women had a very limited wardrobe of dresses and skirts. Birds on their head only. Women had a certain image that they were expected to obtain. Pants weren't an option. Trousers were for men. Women were expected to wear corsets, which reduced their waist size so much that they were unable to breathe and often fainted. The way that now that's a good thing to. Oh, she went down again, but she looks great. Well, she's worth it. I mean, I just love looking at her even when she's dying on the floor. Look at how good she looked. Look at that figure. Just like an hourglass. Tremendous. She's dead. Well, she looked a good looking body. She looked great. She looked great. The way women were dressed made them appear to be like dolls and some came across as fragile. Many came across as fragile. Women were perceived as helpless females in Philly dresses while men were strong in warm masculine pants. I'm putting on my masculine pants, dear. Oh my. Let me make some. Let me make some breakfast. My penis goes there. Oh, wow. It must be so amazing. I can't fucking breathe. Yeah, but your vagina is accessible. Good to be here. She's quiet. Women would put on multiple layers of skirts. They would have to wear girdles and hoop skirts. Not only were steel and whale bone corsets uncomfortable, but the many layers of petticoats, which most women wore, would weigh up to 12 pounds. Holy shit. What the fuck? I mean, I mean, holy fuck. Is there a lighter one because, you know, it's 70 degrees out. 12 pounds. 12 pounds. All right. Well, I'm just going to go put on my 30 pounds of clothing and get out. Hey, what if my corset wasn't made out of metal? Woman. Silence woman. Sorry. I'm just looking at my beautiful pants. Look at the way they go down my leg. Look at that. Everybody knows that I have legs. Look at how simple the pant is. Good lord. I'm going to work. I can jog. I'm going to run around in my pants. But the biggest reason women also couldn't wear pants is because they would portray women to be as equal as men. How dare they? The pro corset conservatives argued that looking respectable and being properly dressed was a lady's duty. And if ladies were uncomfortable, being uncomfortable was a burden that all moral women should happily bear. Anything less would be a sh would be shirking their duty to husbands and families. It feels to me like we still have those people. Have those people? Yeah, we do. Yeah. Fuck yeah, we do. The pro. Oh yeah. Nothing has changed. Yeah. They would like to go back to a corset instantly. The pro corset conservatives are still around. And we should ask them like when they bring up opinions on no contraception or whatever. Yeah. Pro corset. Absolutely. I've always felt a woman shouldn't be in a pant. Listen, I don't know what a woman's body really, and I don't know what it feels like to have a woman's body. Now let me legislate it. Hold on, you shouldn't be in pants, woman. How dare you? Elizabeth Smith Miller came from a rich family. Her parents were abolitionists, and both were very much in favor of women having equal political rights. So crazy feminist house. So they're propants. Fucking lunatics. Propants. People's. Elizabeth visited Turkey prior to the spring of 1851, where she saw Turkish pantaloons. And the spring she was gardening and she couldn't take it anymore. Gardening while wearing a pile of dresses is absolute bullshit. You know that you're in a strange time when American women went to the Middle East and were like, they've got the right idea. Yeah. Hey, oh, oh, hey everybody. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. What about that? I like the way they treat the women here. Yeah, they're good. Yeah. Yeah. So you're out gardening. You're like, you know what? I don't need right now nine pounds of dress. But I could sure use to lose 12 pounds of a petticoat. So she decided to quote. She decided quote, this shackle should no longer be endured. She went inside and put on a pair of Turkish pants. Fuck yeah, Turkish trousers went to the ankle with a skirt reaching some four inches below the knee. So it's still fairly burka ish. Yeah. Turkish trousers went to the ankle with a skirt reaching four inches below the knee. So she still had she started the fucking skirt on. But she had pants on underneath. Okay. That's all it was. Yeah. She had a skirt with pants underneath. It sounds fine. And dudes flipped the fuck out guys. What is happening? This is like anarchy. This fucking woman. What's next? Are men going to be marrying dogs? What's next? They need to say yes to things for in order for you to do them. That one would be in the eyes. That fucking bitch. Because America and extreme Muslims are so different, right? Yes. So totally different. Yep. Whenever I hear people saying Muslims are horrible and different, I'm like, I don't know. That's actually why I came up with this one. Okay. Nobody knows. Oh, wait, women are now wearing pants in Turkey at that time. Yeah, right? Yes. Yeah. Before America was letting women wear pants. Right. Yeah. Where it was illegal to wear pants. Yes. Illegal to illegal. There was a time when it was illegal for some people to wear pants. Just saying Elizabeth showed her cousin who started wearing them and they showed Amelia Bloomer who who had also started wearing them and showed them on the cover of a paper she edited called the Lily. Then they became known as bloomers. I was just going to say bloomers. Okay. Women who took up the bloomer dealt with people stopping and staring at them in the street. As well as constant jeering from boys. When Amelia argued that pants were better for exercise, doctors countered that exercise for women was dangerous and would adversely affect their fertility. Holy shit. That's what we were digging up bodies to find out. Holy shit. Holy shit. It's so great because doctors were liars. Fucking A. I would like to start out by saying that I am full of shit. So as a man who's totally full of shit, let me tell you the medical reason why a woman shouldn't be in shape. That woman jogging about will never have a child. Oh, look at her just bouncing the womb around ruining the womb. Wombs are not meant to bounce. She's going to create a she's going to be wombless in no time. Pro course at Apologist Arabella Canile felt that this exercise idea was preposterous nonsense. Decreying if women needed to exercise all they needed to do was the commonplace household chore. Of course that is that is true. She's a good one to have on your side. Make them clean. Please Arabella cut out your vagina. Yes. Get a penis instead. You're acting like one. There we go. Emma Snodgrass was the perfect example of a woman who dealt with endoscleroticule. After being sent back to New York, she was quickly returned to Boston and was spotted in women's clothes at the Washington coffee house where she was boarding. She was seen as she left the coffee house in women's clothes but returned wearing a neat frock coat cloth cap and black broad cloth pants. December 1852 the Boston Journal headline again and breaches headline headline headline. It's huge news. Snodgrass arrived dressed in a neat frock cloth cap and black broad cloth pants lodging at the Washington coffee house where she remained until yesterday when she was identified as the female who was the subject of so many remarks through the papers about a week since. A bartender recognized her and told the police who took her into custody. You're under arrest for wearing pants. Excuse me pants woman. She was taken to the office of the chief of police and last night remained in the house of one of the city officers who will see that she is again returned to her father's house. The motives of the girl for persisting in such improper conduct have not transpired. I worry what happened to her in that house. Oh God. By now everyone was talking about MS. Snodgrass. Papers around the country now routinely followed the shocking oddity. The shocking oddity. She quote disturbed the equanimity of the sleeping of the sleepy majesty of eastern cities reported the Fort Wayne Times. Well good job Fort Wayne Times on being really really concise on what your point is. Good job on all all the words. Yeah. What her motive may be for thus obscenately rejecting the hablimits hablimits of her own sex is not known reported the New York Times. MS. Snodgrass was back in Boston in December and was again discovered wearing pants. She's a serial panter. She just won't learn. The best is back. How does this one not know what she should do wearing pants. On December 18th the Boston Herald reported her on her attraction to romantic young men. On December 22nd she was reportedly made a profound cessation on a trip to Portsmouth, New Hampshire and on December 28th she was arrested again. New York Daily Times January 8 1853 the foolish girl MS. Snodgrass who goes about in Veraltogery was taken before the court here as a vagrant a day or so ago but it was proved that she did not beg nor misbehave herself and that she paid her way. She was therefore let go to pursue a wretched life of idleness and immorality. What's also great is that there's really nothing they can do. They can't arrest her it is illegal. Yeah but they can arrest her but then they're just like all right but you better not wear pants again. Stop with the pants. Enough panting. She was again arrested after the warrant of her father who was a captain of the First Ward police in New York so her father put out a warrant for her. Cool. When she appeared in court she was accompanied by another female also dressed in trousers and it was with great difficulty that the friends could be separated. Snodgrass was finally sent to New York in charge of an officer and her friend was packed off to the house of industry for two months. Snodgrass is said to circulate in all the drinking houses made several violent attempts to talk horse quote horse. Talk horse? She was talking to the deep voice. Hey don't you love pants? My name's Gary. My name's Gary. Wait. No. Oh wait a minute. I feel another edit coming into the intro. Are you motherfucker? And do other things which fast boys are noted. Fast boys? Yes fast boys. Her friend was a teenage girl named Harriet French who was a tobacco chewing cigar smoking young woman who went by the name of Charlie. Ah this is great. This is fantastic. After getting out of the house of industry Harriet French was given a day to get out of Boston. The Tribune editorialized that authorities punished Harriet because she didn't have any money while Emma got away scot-free such as quote the difference between breaches without money and breaches with noted the editors. Yeah. Classism. Yeah. Pants classism. They never thought I'd hear pant classism. There it is. On January 6th, 1853 the daily dispatch of Richmond, Virginia reported MS Snodgrass had been sent home from the city of Richmond. Charge wearing pants. She's out of control. Over the next few months, MS Snodgrass arrest and appearances happened across the country and were reported as frequently as Kim Kardashian sightings. Like she's like this crazy oddity that everyone in the nation is following because she's fucking wearing pants. She was Lady Gaga. New York Daily Times March 23rd, 1853. MS Snodgrass, the lady of newspaper notoriety, the wanderer in man's apparel has at last paid Albany a visit. She put up at the exchange hotel registering her name as Henry Lewis Boston. Oh, Hank. She visited the museum and strolled around town. The fact leaked out and she began to attract a good deal of attention. So while engaged in viewing the architectural beauties of the exchange, she was requested to view the second district station house and be introduced to Chief Morgan's. She evaded at first her identity, but finally, frankly, owned up. There's a lesson here, which we still don't learn, which is that if they had just not reported on it, women would probably not be able to wear pants. I completely agree. So it's like every time there's a mass shooting and everyone's like, what are we going to? It's just like you're just you're just fighting, petulating. Yeah, you're just making it look like something that's going to appeal to people who maybe didn't even know about its existence. Yeah, or you're giving them the courage. If you see someone else out wearing pants, you go, well, maybe, especially in this day and age, because there'd be no way for somebody to know that somebody in Boston was wearing fucking pants. Right. Emma told the judge she was going to California or Australia, where pants wearing is okay. It actually kind of was. Fort Wayne Times and People's Press, April 27 1853. Emma Snodgrass, the girl in pantaloons who disturbed the equanimity of the sleepy magistrate in the eastern city cities was last seen in Louisville on our way to California. She wears a frock coat, glazed cap, striped pantaloons, and has the appearance of quite a good looking young man. She's a practical women's right girl. She's a really hot boy. Then a sudden turn of events on May 28 1853. The Washington DC Daily Evening Star reported Emma Snodgrass, the young lady in pants appeared in Buffalo on Sunday last, habited in a very becoming and a gentile attire. She's about four feet 10 inches in height. It's a big girl. But no two weeks later, Democrat Democratic banner June 10. Miss Emma Snodgrass, the young lady who is so fond of wearing pantaloons and other articles of male attire was arrested in Cleveland last week. And finally again on July 13. The Grand County Herald of Lancaster, Wisconsin reported Emma Snodgrass has repented gone home taken off her breeches and sworn eternal attachment to petticoats and proprietary propriety. Okay, this is to her credit. This was one of the last articles ever written about Emma Snodgrass. So maybe she did move on to California or Australia. Uh huh. Or she maybe she just gave up and started wearing dresses and then there was no more reports. Okay, I would bet on the dresses. That's what I feel like. New York Daily Times, March 14 1856, three years later. Headline, police intelligence, an unfeminine freak, a girl in man's clothes. The girl Charlie was arrested on Wednesday and brought before justice would at the Essex Market Market Police Court charged with being a vagrant. He that's quite a leap. He dash dash. We mean she heard the complaint. This is in the paper. Yeah, so that it's so that's the best. They're been like, sorry, we're so confused. Should we edit this? No, don't edit it. Yeah, we can just put she no no no. No, keep it. We can put here. I want people to think like I'm confused stream of consciousness while writing it. She heard the complaint. You know, a lot of people are dying. No, no, no, this will. No, it's. Preferred with apparent indifference and replied to with the simple plea of not guilty and was then sentenced to two months imprisonment on Blackwell's Island. What did women wear in prison? Oh, I'm sure they had dresses. I mean, were they like in weird prison dresses? Yeah, they had to have been in prison dresses. Okay. Quote, Charlie choose to back you with ease and enjoys a mild Havana. So she got she got interviewed by a reporter. Okay, reporter went to the prison and interviewed all right. Charlie choose to back you with ease and enjoys a mild Havana. Her teeth, though, are good and white and appear to be an object of great care. Her face is full, lump and smooth and her hair short and black and neatly arranged. Her coat and pants are new neat and well fitting. So she got to our pants and presents. She wore pants. Her boots, most fascinating and her shirt collar and bosom perfectly irresistible. Whoa, this reporter is an erotic novelist. A little weird. Hey, just saying she's got pants on and great. I mean, this is this is the kind of man you want to fuck. I'm in it, bros. I'm deep in it. Charlie is about five feet, three inches in height rather slim and when quote fixed up is what most tender young ladies would call a perfect love of fellow Jesus. She too deep. She dot dot he was born in New Orleans and is now 19 years of age. When her 15th birthday rolled around, she doft her feminine and dawned masculine attire. The change suited so well that she never has seen fit to change its sense. She first offered her services as a mess boy on board a Mississippi steamboat and was on the tip promoted to Captain Boy. About a year later, she was engaged as bartender in the Jenny Lynn Sloone on Canal Street. Charlie says that she has maintained herself quote like a man without doing anything wrong and feels an evident price at the success with which she has carried out her masculine disguise. Don't you think I'm smart? She said to our reporter never to be found out until now. Of course you do. I'm not a bad looking fellow. Am I? Well, your bosons are quite bad. Am I the first fellow you wanted to kiss? So much consuming me. But why do you dress in male attire? Well, because I can get along better. I can get more wages. A poor girl has no chance. I acted wrong once. I don't deny it, but I didn't like to. And it was to prevent the necessity of continuing to act bad that I put on boys clothes. I'm not a vagrant, never have been and never will be so long as I have hands to work. See there, my hands are hard, harder, bigger than yours. That's that's what work looks like. Yes, my hands are big and homely to they were little once when I was living at home with my mother. But then there's no use crying about it is there. I have roughed it so long. And I may as well be rough. All I want is that folks will let me alone. I can get along. She's 19. She's fucking great. She's fucking awesome. Yeah. But you can be punished for dressing in male attire. There's a law against that. Well, now I think it's rather hard that a person can't dress as he sees fit so long as he's decent. Why don't they rest the bloomers? Is it my dress a better one than the bloomer and more becoming? That may be so. But the law Oh, well, my lawyer tells me that he thinks the law is unconstitutional. How about that one? Yeah, I mean, actually, nowhere in the Constitution does it say ladies shall wear pants. Well, they couldn't see that far ahead. Charlie rolled her quid in her mouth during the above conversation and made frequent use of the spittoon. She learned how to chew on the Mrs. hippie. She said the better to keep her disguise and rather liked it now. Wow. Awesome. Yeah. Women wore pants gave up after the brief surge in the early 50s. Due to the endless ridicule, even the first live that Elizabeth Smith Miller gave up the practice, she said it lasted just a few years before she returned to dresses. Part of it was due to ridicule and part of it was deeper. Prominent feminism feminists were more concerned with gaining women's rights than dress reform. And most of them dressed like ladies to avoid being to avoid detracting from their main cause of securing the vote. Does that make sense? Yeah, get rid of the fucking pants. It's distracting from the actual thing. Yep. I'm the price. Ridiculed rational, quote, rational styles and warned that allowing ladies to wear pants would be more dangerous than a ticking time bomb. I swear to God, I it's just the words are different. The dumb passion is the same. Totally the same. Many religious leaders feared that women wearing pants would become immodest. Okay, it's promiscuous. It wasn't lady like girls would be wild instead of being quiet and modest and no one would want to marry them. Who wants to fuck you with all your being a person and whatnot. You're independent thinking and all that. The family would be destroyed. Men would become there's no coming back from this. What are we going to do as a society? How will there be a family? Calm down, we will rebuild. We will rebuild. Men would become weak and effeminate. Whoa, this is amazing. The argument against gay marriage. Yeah, exactly the fucking same. Men. That's amazing to think like, well, you know what's going to happen. Men are going to be women. They're going to start to wear dresses. They wrote editorials fretting that that cross dressing by women would cause social and moral chaos, ranting that the difference between the sexes would be obliterated. That's right. Everyone's got dicks. I mean, right on. I mean, next thing you know, I'll be fucking buttholes. Good Lord. Wait a minute. What'd you say? If they wear pants, what's the stop even fucking Larry? Now I feel like maybe you're talking about. Okay, listen to me and everyone's in pants. Yeah, we can't have that. What's the difference between me fucking Julian fucking Jeff. Why do you want to keep saying you're going to fuck guys? I don't want to but that's what'll happen if they're pants on. No, why no, listen to me. Rather not in the past. There's a hole. Yes. Yeah, I'm gonna fuck that hole. It doesn't matter what the hole it is. You know what, maybe take you want to take a couple days. I feel like a little deep in the movement right now. You lost yourself a little bit in this. I mean, we're crazy, but we're looking at you like you're fucking crazy. You know, yeah, that's cool. But I'm probably gonna fuck you because if everyone's wearing pants, go to Sammy's home, go home and sleep on this. Okay, okay. I'm very confusing. Go home. I'm gonna pray just go home. I'm gonna pray to Jesus for this one. Home. Of course, that was just in the cities. You guys want to fuck women in the American West were pants as a practical necessity. The West was no place for long skirts. It was either muddy or dusty and skirts were a hindrance while doing the physical labor that frontier life required. City records show that a Marie Susie lobbied the board of alderman for the right to wear pants in Gold Rush era San Francisco saying that she had worn quote masculine have had limits, habiliments, habiliments for 20 years and wish to be protected against arrest for doing so. Okay, she said that she had started dressing as a man when she first came to San Francisco and had gone to work in the gold mines eventually earning enough money to start her own business. Many women worked then disguised as men because mining jobs were plentiful. And while the work was hard, the pay was good. On the frontier old photos of women in show women in pants working in logging camps and operating heavy machinery, dressed in men's work clothes, women rounded up cattle raised families and ran businesses. It's not a coincidence that women had the right to vote in the Western States. First, there they were able to show that they were more than equal to the man wearing pants will do that for a woman. The trend of women wearing pants for work continued and slowly chipped away then in 1900s, Victorian and Edward Edwardian style dresses slowly slipped away. More women were working in factories and offices. Influential designers like Paul Poirier and Coco Chanel included pants for women in their collections, actresses and socialites wore new pants to just be a little naughty and to look more modern. During World War One and World War Two women wore pants while working as conductors minors factory workers and many other jobs previously limited to men when the wars were over women were fired and told to go back home and wear dresses. But after World War Two wearing pants had become more socially acceptable as well as fashionable for sports wearing casual dresses. Movie stars like Marlene Dietrich, Catherine Hepburn and Audrey Hepburn had made wearing pants seem cool and sexy by the 50s many young women were comfortable choosing pants for casual wear. At that point it was over the battle against pants was lost. In a great moment in pants wearing history. Oh, yep. Rep house representative Charlotte Reed wore pants on the floor of the house in 1969 with no adverse effects to society. I can't believe that that is so recent. Okay. With the passage of Title Nine in 1972 schools receiving federal funds were prohibited from decriminalizing on the basis of sex. Title Nine made it law that school districts could no longer require that ghouls were girls were dresses to school. In a landmark victory for equal rights the California Implenant Code was changed to say that businesses could no longer require women to wear dresses as part of their dress codes. Even so many places still have obsolete laws on their books that prohibit pants on women. In the 90s, Hillary Clinton made history by being the first and so far only first lady to wear pants in her official portrait. Some conservative evangelical sex still prohibit women from wearing pants citing derotomy derot derotomy derot I don't know these fucking derotomy. No, it's not derotomy derotorotomy derotomy. I think it's in the Bible probably the first one. I've got it over here in one of my books. Yeah, so they're still for it. I don't have the Bible. So when you hear people talking about how backwards the Muslims Middle East Middle East. Yeah, 1969 was the first time a lady wore pants in the house of representatives. And that's when the laws were changed that women could could schoolgirls could wear pants. So why don't you have a little think about that? Everybody everyone's like the Muslims are so much worse really because all those laws are straight up Christian. All those pants laws are straight up fucking Christian. There's nothing in the Constitution pants about pants, pants, pantalonese. Yeah, that's crazy, right? Pants. Yeah, just can't wear pants. Ladies, you can't wear pants. We're American. But you're right. It is. It's gay marriage. It's the same thing. It's the same argument about gay marriage, ruin the family. And I mean, there's obviously there's still a bunch of shitheads trying to overturn gay marriage and it's not fully legal in this country yet. But what's always so amazing when marijuana gets legalized, when gay marriage is getting legalized, when nothing fucking changes. Mixed race marriage is legalized. Yeah, it's all the same argument. But nothing changes. Nothing changes. They're out of the next thing. Yeah, women wearing pants is going to like really make turn men into women. Oh, society has been destroyed. And there's gay guys marry. Everybody's going to just be straight up butt fucking their best friend. That's just going to be what happens. It's going to run so many families. Amazing. Yeah, pants, pants. Well, pants. I gotta say, I think it was a better time when we made women wear 30 pounds of clothing. It seemed like we really had them. We really had them in the palm of our hand back then. We really did. Yeah, we let them go. We get a little crazy. And now they're talking about one maybe being president. It's just like, you know what'll happen if a woman becomes president pants. Exactly. Everybody's going to be wearing pants and fucking their dad. Just makes sense. All right. Good night, everyone. Good night.