 Hello! This is the dollop. I am your fabulous host, Dave Anthony. The dollop is a bi-weekly, do we call it a bi-weekly? I'm still caught up on the fabulous host. Fabulous host. It's a bi-weekly podcast about American history. Each week I choose a subject for American history and I read it to my friend. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about. Boy, howdy. Fabulous host. I said amazing. Fabulous. And fabulous. No, you only said fabulous. I did. I didn't say amazing. You said fabulous. I think we'll have to check the tape. I'm on a lot of cocaine. So am I! Oh my god, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling podcasts. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail queen shit of lies though. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No, has he done, my friend? No, no. Okay, so on February 16th at the Steve Allen Theater, Will Anderson and I will be running our Melbourne International Comedy Festival shows at 8 p.m. You can get tickets at the Steve Allen Theater website. On February 25th, I'll be at Meltdown. Thursday, March 5th, I'll be at Big Money at the Virgil. And then on Monday, March 9th, I will be doing my one-minute show for the full hour at UCB, this new sunset location. Which I hear is great. Yeah? Yeah. And on March 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th, I'll be at the San Francisco Punchline with Eddie Pepitone. I will be at Flappers on the 12th with Dan Levy. On Valentine's Day, the 14th, I will be at Harvelles in Long Beach, California with Sam Tripoli. On the 17th, I will also be at Flappers. And then March 6th and 7th, I will be at Comedy on State Street in Madison, Wisconsin. So that's Wisconsinites, let's fucking dance. What up, Wisconsinites? Go cheese. I don't need it anymore. 1961. All right. Recent, love it. He was born Eric Joseph Doddallier in Pittsburgh. Okay. He was raised in Philadelphia and later Brooklyn where he graduated from St. Anne's High School in 1978. All right. His parents divorced when he was young. His father died in May 1977 and he changed his last name to Red, Eric Red. Okay. He made a short film, Gunman's Blues. When that failed to get him directing work, Red took a drive away car cross country in 1983 to Austin, Texas, the home of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre. A drive away car cross country, that's when you take someone's car and you drive it for them. Oh, I thought, okay. Right. Yeah. You like, you like someone's like, I need this car here. Yeah. Right. For seven months, he drove a cab. He also managed to sell his first script called The Hitcher. The Hitcher was released in 1986. It is a existential horror movie in which former teen star C. Thomas Howell takes a drive away car across country from Chicago to San Diego by way of Texas. Where he picks up Hitchhiker Rutger Hower, a psychopath who systematically terrorizes him into delivering the suicide that Hower himself seems incapable of administering. Okay. You've seen this movie? I don't think I've seen it. I haven't. You should see it. The film is extremely gory, especially for its time. There's a scene in which a young Jennifer Jason Lee is drawn and quartered by an 18 wheeler for no apparent reason. Oh. Very graphic. It's way too many. You need four wheels. I agree. 18 is very aggressive. You could have just gotten a couple of pentos. You could get two flying pentos and fucking stretcher. The movie garnered cult status. The Hitcher also struck a nerve among critics. Roger Ebert gave the film Zero Stars, calling it, quote, diseased, corrupt, and reprehensible. What is particularly sick about the Hitcher is that the killer is not given a viewpoint, a grudge, or indeed a motive. Well, who needs that? Lee's death is so grotesquely out of proportion with the main business of this movie that it suggests a deep sickness at the screenplay stage. In a way, as a writer, you do want to have one of those. That's pretty great. That's pretty nice for him to see a film and just to call out the screenwriters specifically. Being a fucking animal. Yeah, for being a monster. And that's exactly why many people like it. Some people believe that Howell and Hower are actually the same person, two sides of a split personality, and the film is an allegory for schizophrenia. With one side good and the other into suicide. Or is this just one of those things where something so crazy is released that people just go through it with a fine tooth cut? Yeah, they try to figure out. Eventually. It's almost like when people look at art sometimes. I just see a bunch of little dots. I think if you look at the guy's future work you would say no, he doesn't know anything about what he's doing. Yeah, okay. You know, it's both sides of a coin. It's really nice to see someone finally take that disease and give it a place to just express itself finally. Red came from a problematic family background. And his films like Body Parts and Bad Moon involve families who are threatened by a loved one undergoing increasing psychosis or supernatural variation on a violent mental illness or schizophrenia. Okay, good. So he's at least consistent in his work for the most part. He's working it out. Right. He's working it out through his movies. That's good. There are a number of similarities of elements in Red's films. Characters get run down by cars or trucks at the end of the hitcher near dark, blue steel, and undertow. Both Body Parts and Undertow feature traffic accidents early on and the hitcher opens with a near head on with a semi. Good. In Body Parts, when a basketball player is sporting a serial killer's transplanted legs, okay, so do you know what Body Part is? Body Parts is, I'm pretty sure I haven't seen it, but I remember the trailer, but it's basically a serial killer dies and then they, and then his Body Parts are put on. They bury him in different areas. So they donate, he donates his body and then all the people that get the Body Parts, I believe. Oh, so someone that gets his heart, they're like evil. They're fucking evil. Right. I believe that's what happens. So when a basketball player is sporting a serial killer's transplanted legs is stopped at a traffic light, the autonomous leg stops down on the accelerator, creating him into traffic. That is just such an amazing visual, right? The idea that a man could have amputated legs and be a basketball player is amazing. But right off the bat. The same happens as Howard pushes Howell's foot down on the gas at the start of the hitcher to bypass one of his roadside victims. In Red's Draft of Alien 3, a character climbs into a tractor trailer and plows through rows and rows of aliens and in an unproduced script titled Highway to Hell written in early 1999, a tractor trailer possessed by the spirit of a serial killer wreaks havoc on the Texas freeways. That is a great idea for a film as well. That's like a murderous love bug. Quote, it's my truck that's killing people and I can't walk away and say it ain't my responsibility, says truck driver Sonny Ray Slaughter. Sonny Ray Slaughter. Great then you have to go, you're a terrible screenwriter. But don't stop writing. But that quote, it's my truck that's killing people and I can't walk away and say it ain't my responsibility. Yes, you can. I can't. No, sir, that is my truck killing people. No, no, no. Are you in it? It's possessed by a murderer. That's on me. Also, my last name is Slaughter. Yeah, that's right. Slaughter's me. Oh my God, what a great line. Originally, this movie was called Over the Top. There are also quite a few slit throats and broken glass brandished as weapons, especially in bars. In his opening monologue in The Hitcher, Hower's character asks, you got any idea how much blood jets out of a guy's neck when his throat's been slit? In a scene from Near Dark, the creatures terrorize a roadhouse slicing bartenders and waitresses' throats and feeling their beer mugs like beer from a tap with blood. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, that's... Near Dark is actually a great movie. In what kind of way? It's a really good vampire movie. Okay. Have you ever seen Near Dark? Nope. I highly recommend it. It's a great movie. At 6.30 p.m. on May 31, 2000, Kenny Hughes had just bypassed Bundy in West LA heading east on Wilshire Boulevard. Writing next to him in his white 1995 Honda Accord was his girlfriend, whom he just picked up at the airport. Hughes stopped at a light. Neither he nor his girlfriend noticed the 1994 black Jeep Grand Cherokee approaching them from behind. It hit them at a dead stop, doing minor damage to the Honda. Hughes had the presence of mind to set the emergency brake before stepping out of his car to inspect the damage. Angry, but in control, he walked back to the driver's side window of the car. Quote, I get up to his car and he slumped over the wheel looking out the window towards me with his eyes open. And I was probably there for a second, two seconds, when the car just started moving. The Jeep struck his car a second time, picking up speed, until it jacked knife the Honda into oncoming traffic. Hughes' girlfriend was still in the car and scrambled out of the moving vehicle just as the Jeep slipped off its right bumper. No longer slowed by the Honda, the Jeep sped up and suddenly it was going an estimated 35 to 45 miles an hour the wrong way across Wilshire. It jumped the curb and obliterated a bus stop, scooping up a 26-year-old Santa Monica City college student. Taking out an outdoor patio of tables and scattering bodies, among them 34-year-old environmental lawyer Noah Baum. The SUV continued unabated through the plate glass windows and front door of Q's bar, stopping only after it had moved the heavy horseshoe shaped mahogany bar, beer taps, and freezer units several feet. Those drinking inside or watching the Knicks game on TV heard what sounded like an explosion followed by a spray of glass, wood and dirt from a sidewalk planter. Many assumed it was an earthquake or bomb. In statements to police several witnesses reported the Jeep's driver, Eric Redd, then 39, was wide awake and staring straight ahead, both before and after the impact. What? Was this Jeep possessed by a murderer? It's mad responsibility that the car has gone crazy. I had to stare the car in my eyes away because there's Jeffrey Dommer's my motor. So he just went so I mean, I'm ready to hear more but basically, he just plowed into a wide Honda for no reason. Almost killed two people, just kept going, drove into a bar and it was just super fucking alert. One of the people, Jason McCourt, was pinned to the bar and began yelling at Red to back up. Bartender Donald Tavey came over the bar and onto the hood of the Jeep, then tried to help him get it into gear. He went from park to reverse and back, then started screaming and shaking his head like he was a little kid. Others told police that Red was shouting and flailing his arms around or shaking hard and screaming like a lunatic. Another bartender got Red out of the Jeep and popped into the neutral, after which the crowd managed to rock it back off the bar. McCourt was alive, getting off with a broken leg and fractures to his hips and pelvis. But immediately below him, Bomb was crushed into a sitting position. Ann Blackburn, a nurse, examined Bomb and reported he was dead. Three FBI agents, Mike Wax, Fred Ailes and Richard Bucky Sadler, were drinking at the southwest corner of the bar about three feet from the point of impact. In his police statement, Wax said, quote, I looked at the driver after the crash and he appeared awake and alert. It was like he was just a guy in the bar. There was no look of surprise or shock on his face at all. Sadler's statement, quotes, Red is saying, is everybody okay? Did it hurt anybody? I didn't mean to kill anybody. How'd that work? That worked out for everybody. Do you guys have food here? Was that weird? Do you guys sell food? Stella, do you have Stella? And then what is happy hour? Is happy hour done? Do you have the little hot dog wiener? Oh, I love the little cocktail dogs. Yeah, the cocktail dogs. Still holding his car keys in his left hand and bleeding from a small cut on his right eyebrow, Red walked away from the vehicle, picked up a sharp stick and began ramming it into his chest. Red then picked up a broken glass off the floor, approximately two inches thick and slashed once at his neck, cutting it deeply. Kitchen worker Ray Garcia and several patrons wrestled him to the ground, then tied a waiter's apron around his throat to stop the flow of blood and covered him with a tablecloth to prevent shock. Red continued to speak, telling them, don't bother. I just want to die. Don't bother with me. I'm not worth living. I agree with him. Well, I agree with him there. Yeah, I don't know if I would have stopped the blood. I guess they all think it's an accident at this point. Well, whoopsies. Yeah, but they also didn't see the movie. Like if he had got out of the car and wrote, I wrote to hitch her. Yeah, true. Oh, no. Yeah, the second he says he wrote that movie. Yeah, it's like, wait a minute. I wrote a character named Slaughter. Can you imagine being, I mean, this is, this can't be over that long of a period of time. So with, since he's been there, you're probably like, driver seems a little, he's stabbing his neck. He seems a little off. He's stabbing his heart. Red was taken to UCLA Medical Center where he was kept on a ventilator in intensive care. The next day, David Ruse succumbed to massive internal injuries, bringing the death toll to two. Medical authorities quickly ruled out drugs or alcohol and red remained an additional 11 days for psychiatric observation against his will. In a meeting with Detective Mike Farrell at the police headquarters a month and a half after the collision, red said he suddenly began to feel, quote, lightheaded and nauseous. At that moment, triggered by pain in his ankle, yellow spots began to fill his field of vision and he blacked out. While he was unconscious, the Jeep changed lanes and negotiated this 175 yards to the light and Kenny Hughes Honda. When he woke up, he was in cues amid the post accident madness. He tried to commit suicide for the first and only time in his life. I was in absolute overwhelming condition of panic, horror and shock. I was not in my right mind. Except that everyone said he was awake and just hanging out. He also said since 1994, Dr. Herbert Rubin, a Beverly Hills gastroenterologist had been treating red for syncope, a feigning condition for which there was no known cause or cure. He suffered five or six such episodes of Frank Sincope over the past 10 years and many more episodes of Nier Sincope. He had also undergone a series of tests at UCLA at the time and can provide medical records to corroborate everything. But Sincope is you see dots and pass out. Okay, but right. Sounds not real, right? Well, it also sounds like probably one of the side effects isn't driving into a bar and trying to kill yourself. It also sounds like something that a screenwriter would look up and it's cinema or cynical. After six months of investigation, LA Deputy District Attorney Robert Sevet announced there was insufficient evidence to file criminal charges. Registrivers license was suspended indefinitely on October 10, 2000 for negligently causing or contributing to a fatal accident. He claimed afterwards I'll never get behind the wheel of a car again within days of the act. Just a possessed truck. Yeah, with the days of the accident, families of the victims brought a civil lawsuit in Los Angeles Superior Court. Red had been driving on a suspended license resulting from an at fault collision in October 1999. He told police he was unaware his license had ever been suspended. As I mean, who would know who would know if that license, you know, you can't keep it. Well, they don't send you letters to let you know every day. It's not like they tell you or take it away from you. No, no, no, no, no, no, they just yeah. No, it's that's the thing about having a suspended license. It's a total mystery. You never know. You don't know until you get a warrant. Yeah, it's exactly like that. Red was also in quite a bit of financial trouble was having custody issues with his ex-wife. He declared bankruptcy in 1995 and Red still owed the RS between $203,000, the California franchise tax board and excess of $100,000 and an additional $100,000 in back child and spousal support. Jesus. Things were good. Yeah. You can imagine like the Hail Mary movies. He was writing at this point just to get something through. It's about a fucking it's about a murder toilet. Shit. No, wait. It's a motorcycle that solves crimes. Okay. Hold on. Hold on. Come on. What's the winner? Hey, C. Thomas. It's me again. Listen, I don't have to get my calls, but yeah, I've got a great idea. I want to get you and Rut back together, work out something. You guys run a nursery school. Okay. All the kids are just brains. So hit me up. You can't be a call. Okay. Got a storyboard. It's nice. His Mulhall and Drive had been for his Mulhall and Drive home had been foreclosed on and he was living in a small apartment off the 405. He had gone from flavor of the month writer in the mid 80s to directing shit movies. Body parts had the misfortune of being released two weeks after Jeffrey Dommel was arrested in Milwaukee for cannibalism. This is was this a time where they didn't delay openings. What the fuck? They kept the movie, but they just didn't advertise it at all. So oh, that's that is bad luck. That is seriously. Oh man. Oh, look, we can't advertise the movie. No body parts because there's a guy who has body parts. Well see, Dahmer's really hitting the headlines hard. It's kind of a big deal. The whole eating people and keeping parts in your or you lean into it. Lean right into it. Lean right into that. And just like the only movie Jeffrey Dahmer says is awesome. The only movie Jeffrey Dahmer said made me horny. Even Dahmer was scared of body parts. Red went from being represented by UTA and ICM to the Chasen agency, a three person talent outfit that handles all big agencies, fading icons like Bo Derek and Adam West. By 2000, he was writing production notes for American World Pictures, a straight to video company with titles such as Blow Back with Mario Van Peoples and Hitman's Run with Eric Roberts. Those are some really big names. I mean, if you're if you're writing movies for Mario Van Peoples, it's over. If Eric Roberts is considered your reach, it's not good. Things are not good. It's called You've Been Van Peoples. Yeah, you've been Van Peoples. In July 2000, Red's ex-wife, Tya, contacted Eric Baum and Brandon Baum, offering to testify against her ex-husband. Red had asked to see her the day of the accident at the hospital. She told police that Red said, quote, you won't believe how easy it is to cut your throat. I would just like to get out and go finish the job. She reported multiple instances in the years together of Red holding a gun to his head and saying, I can't handle it anymore. They had been divorced for six years and May 31st, the day of the accident would have been their 13th wedding anniversary. So in retrospect, are you feeling like things are coming together? In retrospect, the insufficient evidence thing. Yeah, maybe. Maybe just not good detective work. Maybe not really checking into shit. Really not looking. In August 2001, the civil trial, at the civil trial, Red asserted his fifth amendment rights and announced that he had moved to Austin, Texas. Then on October 23rd, 2001, he filed Chapter 7 bankruptcy. Texas is a debtor's haven. Red moved to Texas almost six years to the day after his previous bankruptcy filing. And at the time he said he lived there from the end of August to just before Christmas, which was coincidentally the amount of time required to establish state residency. Though when Red moved to Texas, he only took with him his clothes and a computer. He left the rest of his possessions in storage in Van Nuys. While in Texas, he failed to get a driver's license, bank account, a bus pass, a Texas ID or a job. None of the people from Texas's Austin film community were called meeting Red there. Interesting. The bankruptcy filing stopped the civil students tracks. In December 2001, Red received a round trip plane ticket to LA to record the voiceover commentary for the European Special Edition of the Hitcher. He flew one way to Los Angeles and never went back. But it turns out there's a wrinkle in the bankruptcy law that lets debts incurred by quote, willful and malicious injury to a person or property of another are non-dischargeable under the bankruptcy statute. Okay. So he still has that looming. That is, if Red were conscious during the collision and could be expected to know that his actions would cause harm, then bankruptcy wouldn't absolve him of monetary judgment. Okay. A trial date was set for November 12, 2002 in Austin. Although Red told doctors that UCLA immediately after the collision that he had suffered five or six episodes of syncope by the time of his police interview in July, that number had shrunk to four or five. In this deposition two years later, it was three all during bowel movements. Oh yeah. But do you not know that one of the side effects of syncope is that the episodes in your head, they start to shrink. They fluctuate. Yeah, they fluctuate. They go down. Yeah, they decrease over time. Yes. That's one of the, everybody who suffers from syncope does that. I remember when I was talking to my uncle who has it, he was like, I had the same conversation. He's like, I have 13. I was like, how many? He's like four. And by the time of the trial, three months after that, it was twice during bowel movements and once from a random case of gout. What is he doing? Honestly, what is, just ratchet up the excuse department a little bit. He's like the hitcher of lying. Yeah. And why the bowel movement part? It's just like, dude, we get it. I was just relaxed. He probably did more research about it and found out that most people have it when they're shitting. Well, I don't know. But don't even bring it up. No. You should say it happens when I'm walking around or stuff and I fall down. Such a bad, and gout. I had gout and I just faded. I had been eating nothing but cream. So my bowel movements were horrible and I was getting syncope and then of course at the gout. The doctor who read clan had been treating him for his condition. Dr. Rubin had in fact only seen him once in 1994. Dr. Rubin was unable to produce his notes from that appointment. Rubin claimed the notes were lost in a move. He said he had treated red for his fading condition. But in his deposition, he denied that he'd ever treated red for syncope. I'm a gastroenterologist. Rubin said, I don't treat anyone for syncope. I'm not an eye guy. I know I wrote a letter and told everybody this, but it's not true at all. Rubin, my body was possessed by a murderer. I got a brain from a serial killer. Come on. Rubin was investigated by the Medical Quality Board of California for nine complaints alleging repeated negligent acts, incompetence, dishonesty, and false medical records, insurance fraud, failure to repay insurance proceeds, failure to release medical records, inadequate and inaccurate records, and general unprofessional conduct. In 2005, Rubin was sentenced to five years probation in order to complete medical record keeping and ethics courses and to engage in a billing monitor to oversee all financial transactions. I don't think his problem was that he didn't know how to keep medical records. Rubin said, quote, I was trying to help him avoid criminal prosecution. In retrospect, I probably should have let Eric Redd twist in the wind. That's what doctors do. They write down what their patients tell them. I'm not a prosecutor. Someone tells me they fainted. I have to believe it. Well, no, that's so stupid. What that's retarded. And that's today's episode of terrible doctor. I mean, what is he? Well, if someone says they have cancer, I just got to take it. I got to go with it. They said they had to cancel. That's what they call it. That's why I wrote a document to the police. Come on. In February, 2000, the Judge Frank Monroe in US bankruptcy court West District of Texas released his findings. Monroe ruled that the, quote, willful and malicious injury test fulfilled if Redd intentionally drove his Jeep into the billiard parlor slash bar in the early evening at a high rate of speed. It is hard for one to imagine a more evil action if that was what truly occurred, Monroe said. Stopping short of ruling that Redd had moved Austin to intentionally elude a civil judgment, Monroe said the court viewed his move with, quote, great suspicion and followed a brief chronology of Redd's bankruptcy filing with the, by saying quote, coincidence doubtful. Hey, I like it. Can they hit the gavel? Yeah. The judge found that Mr. Redd story is simply not consistent with the facts. What we know happened. He also finds that Redd was conscious and alert and that that all of this occurred because of a fit of uncontrollable rage on the part of Mr. Redd. The reason for the rage being largely unknown. This cleared the way for the damage portion of the civil trial in Santa Monica. Redd chose not to stand, take the stand and after deliberating for two days, the jury awarded $500,000 to each plaintiff. That's a lot of shitty scripts. So that's a million dollars because two people died. That's a lot of bullshit scripts. He's got it right. Redd then filed a legal malpractice suit against Mercury Insurance. A legal strategy, a legal strategy where he might still avoid paying damages and walk away from the whole affair. God damn. Even though Mercury Insurance had already paid out like 300,000 to defend him. Yeah, right. So he's like, hey, fuck you, handbite. He also lost that one. The district attorney's office investigate and declined to file charges against Eric Redd. Quote, I would have loved to a charge the guy said detective Mike Fisher, the investigating officer who spent five months on the case. After going through all this, give me something, put me in front of a grand jury. I'll walk you through everything I did. If I could have shown beyond a reasonable doubt that he had not passed out behind the wheel, this case probably would have been filed as a misdemeanor vehicle manslaughter. Fender Bent was written by Eric Redd and Meredith Casey in a draft dated May 1st, 2003. It's a story of a group of high school students on their way to a concert who run out of gas in a small town in central Texas. There they encounter an actual society of miscreants who target and run down pedestrians for fun as part of an elaborate sport. They refer to themselves as the Fender Bent's and collect points for every unsuspecting victim they tally. Uh, I mean, what? He's a fucking monster. But how? Yeah, he just doubled down. It's a weird order to go in. You imagine reading that? Uh, but you were the guy who saw... What's this based on? Where do you come up with these, um... It's like he just crashed into the bar as research. Oh, I mean, he crashed into the fucking bar as research. Redd's own father, Cornius Gerard Doudallier, was killed by a drunk driver at age 46 in New Jersey when Redd was 16. But it was only after his own crash that his mother told him the man who killed his father claimed to have passed out at the wheel, and the man was convicted and served time in prison. According to Relative, the other vehicle struck his father's car, which was then stopped at a traffic light. Oh my God. So he just fucking... He didn't know that at the time, but he repeated history. He had no idea that's how his father died. But he did the exact same thing without booze? He wasn't drunk. He wasn't drunk. That's the difference. Yeah. God, the syncope sounds like a horrible affliction. Holy shit. I can... Can you imagine reading what is it called? Fender... Fender, whatever? Fenderbentz. Fenderbentz. You imagine reading that from him? No. Have you ever tried a romantic comedy? Have you ever tried anything that's maybe not... God. Because his whole career is about cars and murder. Yeah. Yeah. And then he just plows a car... Kills people in a bar. And kills people in a bar. Gets away with it except for the civil. Yeah. But... How could they not bring charges? Well, yeah. You have three FBI agents saying that he was... He did it. He was totally conscious and awake and like hanging out. I guess you can't prove... And that guy is still alive. Yeah. All the FBI agents are alive. But I guess you can't prove that he... You could... If a guy's just sitting there, you could say he was in shock. Like... Right. For sure. Yes. You could say that after something like that... You're talking about why he would try to kill himself? Yeah. Well, that and the fact that he was just like sitting there. Yeah. But then he started flailing his arms and screaming. Yeah. It's when... When nobody who would accidentally do that who would write a script about it. It would be far too traumatic. That's the thing. There would be no way that somebody would ever... Yeah. Can I get a meeting with this guy? He said this was written about in the LA Weekly and he said he would sue the guy who wrote it but he never did. Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. Well... All right. There you go. Nice. Thank you.