 Hello, this is the dollop each week I read a story from American history to my friend Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about boy howdy, huh? Okay, this is a good intro. This is one of our better interests not Gary Gareth, Steve okay? Someone or something is tickling me Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickle you, Claude Kelly You are queen fakie of made-up town All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do my pray. Hi, Gary. No, I see you done my friend. No, no! February 10th 1963. Wait a minute, that's modern. That's almost, we're almost at an anniversary. This person could be alive. Leonard Kyle Dykstra entered the world in Garden Grove, California. His parents Dennis and Marilyn Dykstra were a young phone company workers in Garden Grove, California. Oh, this one is hitting right close to us. Yeah, this one's really close to us. People don't know Garden Grove is somewhere around us and I don't know exactly where. No idea where, but I know that it's 20 to 30 minutes away. Yeah, it's around here. It's a place that nobody cares about. I'm sorry if you live there. Sorry, Garden Grove. We don't really care about that. What the rest of us think, you're going to hear the straight truth. He was the second son of the couple. Lenny's dad left the family when he was four. Good dad. One only assumes because of Lenny. Yeah, obviously. He was an asshole and so the dad was like, I'm out of here, you four-year-old. Yeah, enough with the blocks. So he was raised by his mother and his stepfather in Anaheim, California. Okay. We both know about Anaheim. Yep. We were a sports family, Lenny's mother said. His father and I devoted our lives to the kids and their sports schedules. I can't even remember a weekend when we didn't have some kind of game to get to somewhere. Okay. Yep. You down? I'm down. It sounds like they're great people. Lenny spent his childhood playing many different sports, but baseball was his passion. Four-year-old Lenny swung at tennis balls for hours and cried when his parents suggested he stopped. At six, he talked coaches into making him a base runner in an eighton over league. At six, he talked them in. Hey, man, come on. What are you crazy? What's going on over here, guys? Listen, how hard do I have to sell you guys on me? Hey, guys, what's going on over here? Come on. I'm six. Do you want some candy? Let's make a deal. Look at my legs. Look at my legs. Look at my legs. After going three, four, four in an all-star game, nine-year-old Lenny begged his stepdad to stop at the batting cages afterwards. Jesus. Quote, I don't feel right, dad. I've got to work. Whoa. Nine years old. I don't know, man. I just, I went three for four. It just fucking feels weird, dude. Like, how would you even take that seat? Just be like, he is adorable. I don't know if I call him adorable. I think I might say we need to take you to like some sort of psychological evaluation. It's time to put him in a home. Lenny just stands there and pitches at the door all day. Um, so, uh, the family, oh, I already did that. It's okay. I'd love to hear it again. Oh, right. The family, no, I didn't already do this. The family live near Anheim Stadium, which is known as the Big A. Yep. And Lenny, that's where the Anaheim Angels play in their baseball team. The Anaheim Angels of Los Angeles. Yeah. And his brother and him would ride their bikes to the ballpark and they'd sneak into the outfield on off days. Okay. When he was about 12, he and the other kids hiked the four miles to Anheim Stadium and they snuck inside, as Mother said. It really wasn't a mischievous thing. Lenny was just so thrilled to be on the field where Rod Crue played. They were sliding into bases and hitting balls off the wall when all of a sudden there was a police helicopter above them, telling them they were all trespassing. Oh, shit. I guess they would have been arrested, but Lenny was so fast that he got away. Well, I mean, She sounds proud of the fact that her child was committing crime. He's an X-man. He can outrun helicopters. So from this week in gather that, um, there was a lot of supervision. Yeah. Good parenting. It's fine that the dad left at four. Yeah. Clearly nothing happened. There's not a vacuum. Lenny was very fast. He was a record setting runner on his high school football team. The team would practice set plays all week. And then on game day, Lenny would get the ball, blow off all the set plays that everyone worked so hard on all week and then go score a touchdown. Like that's the kid you honestly don't want to be on a team with. No, you fucking hate his guts. He's like, Six points. Woo! You're like, motherfucker. I mean, all the things we worked on a week and you just blew it off. Yeah, man, we scored though. Come on. I hate you. Let's go to the batting cages after this. He was the leadoff hitter in high school because he loved the attention. Lenny dominated the team by the time he was a sophomore. He was short and people are always telling him he was too short to make it. Do you know who this is now? I know who Lenny Dykstra is. Okay, but you don't know the Lenny Dykstra story. I don't think I know. Maybe I'll can to some of it, but. You would know. Okay. He took the sport so seriously that before his high school games, all the other boys would be lined up along the fence, talking to girls, while Lenny would be in the locker room staring at a ping pong ball for 15 minutes. He believed that by doing that, the baseball would look as big as a basketball. Wait, okay. Okay. All right. So, so he thought that if he stared at a ping pong ball, but it'll, then when he went out to play baseball, he'll be like, Holy shit, look at the size of that thing. God, what's coming at me? I just got to hit this meteor once. All right. So, so we tell that story. So if he plays ping pong, what does he look at? Oh, he looks at a little tiny. He just looks at a marble. He's like, yeah. Holy shit. And then someone's like, let's play marbles. He's like, I gotta get his pin. I got to look at a pinhead. Yeah. So he's not smart. I think that's what we're saying. Sure. He's got a weird, you know, he's got a weird diet. The way he looks at sports is a little strange. It's a little strange. Yeah. A student at his school recalled, I had the pleasure of playing high school baseball and football against Lenny. I have to say that I have never seen a high school baseball player as good as him. Truly an incredible athlete, but as great as an athlete as he was, he was also an incredibly arrogant jerk. I have personal memories of him that remind me of how selfish a person he was. I mean, there's a lot of extra words in there, but still. I look back and think, what an athlete. What a dick. Right. That's what he really needed to say. Clearly he gave a nice quote, but the real thing is, no, the guy could play ball, but he's a fucking piece of shit. An asshole, yeah. He's a piece of shit. Lenny played for Garden Grove High School and batted a 550, which is insane. Yeah. That's an insane bat. The best baseball players bat like around 330. Yeah. At 18, he entered the 1981 amateur draft. Right. He was convinced his hometown angels would select him in the first round. Oh, well, I know where we're headed. Instead, they took shortstop Dick Schofield, the first round passed, and the second round passed. Oh, boy. Lenny was not picked. Finally, with a 315th pick in the 13th round, the lowly New York Mets took a shot on Lenny. Okay. So I'm guessing based on his batting average and his size, it could have been his size, but more than anything, it was his fucking attitude. People don't want a douchebag on your team. Well, during like the interviews, you don't bring up the ping pong thing. No. No, I stir ping pong. This is my best friend, Wilson. Lenny was furious. Fuck the angels, he said. He felt betrayed by the angels and was not happy to take the Mets offer. The Mets offered him $25,000 bonus to sign. Right. This is very common now. Like a player, I get like $7 million to sign. Yeah. Right out of high school or college. Lenny said no to the $25,000. So they offered him $27,500 and he said no. Okay. Then the Mets offered him $30,000 and he refused that. Jesus. What? There's not really a backup plan though, right? What? I'm the best fucking player in the draft. Lenny told the Mets scout and I should be fucking paid like it. Oh, wow. Well, the Mets have to be excited for this guy. Finally, the Mets made him a final offer of a $35,000 bonus. Okay. Lenny took it. Jesus. You also can't demand a huge bonus if you were picked $315. There's not a lot of leverage. Because if they give you the most money, then they have to pay everybody above you more money. You fucking idiot. It's asshole too. Also the idea that you go from being like, I'm worthless, 10 grand later, you're like, I'll take it. 10 grand is your margin. $5,000 more. I'm the best guy in the fucking world. Fine. You sell small shoes here. $5,000 more. Okay. I feel respect. I feel the respect that I needed. I got it there. Okay. And that says you think I'm the best. Thank you. In the Mets minor leagues, he became friends with fellow outfielder Billy Bean, who later became the longtime GM of the Oakland A's and the star of the moon. Moneyball. Moneyball. Right. And Lenny was perfectly designed emotionally to play baseball in that he had no concept of failure. Oh, wow. Yeah. No concept of failure. That's going to lead to other things in his life. Okay. Cool. I'm excited. Another former minor league teammate recalls quote, he was the hardest playing athlete I'd ever seen, but he was very disrespectful and he didn't give a shit if he had to run you over to gain an edge. It was all about Lenny, Lenny, Lenny, Lenny. All right. He had a habit of bringing home the fattest, ugliest women to have sex with and then he would kick them out afterwards and return an hour later with another. So but he would be, but before he would go take those women home, he would just look at a doll so he could kind of visualize how easy it was going to be to hit it when they were there. And his major league debut on May 3rd, is there any reason why he would just bring home the, I don't know. He's just, that's just his thing. He liked, he liked him big. He liked him big and he liked his women like he liked his ego. Enormous. Okay. So his major league debut May 3rd, 1985, leading off for the Mets, Lenny went two for five, scored twice, drove in two runs, stole a base and hit a home run. Pretty good. It's a fucking awesome debut. He played part time after that and didn't get into the lineup steadily until July when Mookie Wilson went down with an injury. You probably, he says, you don't follow baseball, you don't know Mookie Wilson, but Mookie Wilson was an actual person. Oh yeah, no. Someone named the kid Mookie. Yeah, right. Which is fucked up. Yeah, Mookie. Sure. Lenny immediately made an impact with his scrappy style of hard nose play. He soon became known as Nails. Oh, because his nickname. Tough as nails. He's fucking tough as nails. All right. For his toughness as well. It would be great if he just had like great fingernails. He had, he was the first guy to put like bedazzle his fingers. Yeah. Yeah. And then he'd look at what Lenny did to his nails. Hey, check it out, guy. That's a fucking bronze elephant on there. The only thing that's missing from this beautiful hand is a ring. So he had a nitty-gritty style of play in the outfield. He dove for balls on the base pass. He slid in head first to the bags. It seemed he always had a dirty uniform and a cheek full of tobacco. Now, now I can say I don't, when you bring up players over the years, there are very few that you immediately have a mental image of. And when you say Lenny Dykstra, I, there, there are two guys that played. Lenny Dykstra and John Crook played on the same team. And I immediately have an image of both these guys. And Lenny was always fucking filthy and he had a big fucking water chew in his cheek. And he was a fast little tiny, you know, fucking pistol runner on the base. Right. Yeah. Okay. So the, the fans took to him. He was like a real old timey. Right. He's a throwback. Yeah. He looks like, he looks like a guy from the 40s. Right. The fans soon fell in love and he became one of the most popular figures around Shea Stadium. He was a great lead off hitter during a game of golf at the Nassau County Club in 1986. Lenny secured his reputation with his teammates. Quote, he walked past a bunch of priests in the clubhouse, lifted a leg and farted. Oh, wow. And that, that gelled that gelled the team. That's how he got the respect of his boys. I mean, so now we've learned a lot about the Mets as well, his teammates. Yeah. The priests must have just been like, what the fuck is happening? Woo. Wow. You really gave it to those priests. Second communicator of God. Boom. Dyke Stryz in the house. He fit in as well as anyone said team. Lifting up the leg is what makes it hilarious. Like, he just walks up to like, like a dog on a high. They're like 13 year olds. Like, I don't even think a 13 year old would do that. Maybe an 11 year old. Yeah, no. It's insane. He fit in as well as anyone said to make Doug, Doug, Sisq. Lenny was gritty and disgusting. And so were we. Opponents called the Mets arrogant and sufferable and a bunch of assholes. It's funny because that almost sounds like the quote of Lenny before he was a Mets. So it sounds like he's in the blood. He's in the blood strong. Over the course of the 86 season, they were involved in four bench clearing fights, not light rounds of pushing and posturing like you see often, but full on mob scenes complete with blood, torn clothing, and seriously dark intentions to hurt other players. Wow. Lenny was always in the middle. The second year he was on the team, Lenny helped the Mets win the World Series. I mean, it's amazing that all that is over the first year of his career. If you even if you just farted on priests in this year one, it's a very huge year. And this year, the team award for most farting on priests. Come on, motherfucker, I've earned this. Lenny Dykstra. Fuck you, baby. Dykstra. The second year he helped the Mets win the World Series in 1986. And that's the famous in America, everyone knows Bill Buckner. It's a guy who was playing for space on the Red Sox. The team, the Mets were playing against and he just had a ground ball go between his legs. He just made one of the worst plays ever in the history of a man's life changed so quickly. Changed so quickly. And they and the Mets won because of that. I mean, other stuff happened, but that was a big play. A lot of people say that Lenny farted his way when that. The Mets were also a team of heavy drinkers and cocaine users. I just love the idea that you could use Coke and play sports. I mean, there's stories of them doing blow on the on the pitcher's stripe after games. Oh, Jesus. Darrell Strawberry and Doc Gooden were both on the yeah, those guys are notorious cocaine users. Doc Gooden missed the team's 86 victory parade because he was high on blow in a drug dealer's house to paranoid to leave. I mean, he was watching it. So he went out after the victory. The parade was the next day. He left the bar was out to do blow and then ended up staying up all night and then watching the parade on TV. If you're the dealer, you have to be like it's like the good times are over once he's like, I can't go because they'll know. You're like, wait, dude, this is your front. What? You won the World Series. I told you not to do those last two lines. What are you talking about? I'll just watch it here with you if that's okay. That's okay with you. They would often know. Doc, it's not. I realize you're the one of the. They'll know. They'll know that I've thought about it. I want you to leave. I'm going to. Can I use this pillow? They would often gather at games after games at a blue color watering hole called Finn McCools where they drank with their fans and bought rounds for the house. If you stopped by Finns around three in the morning after a home game, you'd likely see a gaggle of Mets staggering along the sidewalk carrying another teammate between them trailed by a giggling swarm of female groupies. The owner of Finns once claimed that the 86 Mets single-handedly kept his bar in business. They kept a refrigerator stuck with beer in their locker room at Shea. Okay. So that is what honestly, like that's why that's why baseball is so different from most of the other sports is that like, like other athletes will juice, they'll use steroids and shit like that, but you can't, you wouldn't be able to competently pass drunk. No, but apparently, apparently if I mean, that's why you just look at the ping pong ball. You can have 12 beers. I went to a LA Galaxy Rangers soccer game here in America and the Rangers from Scotland were visiting and they're playing horribly and I looked at a guy next to me. I was in a suite. There's a Drude K suite and I said, what the fuck is going on? And he goes, Oh, they were two hours ago. They were getting pissed at a pub. And they were playing drunk in front of imagine 15,000 people. That's I mean, it says a lot about what the respect level they have for the Los Angeles Galaxy. So after games with their little beer locker room, players stayed late into the night emptying the beer stocked fridge. Jesus. Many times the team trainer arrived the next morning to find men passed out all over the floor half naked surrounded by crushed beer cans. So all right guys, game day. Come on, get them up. Look at these guys training so hard they're even sleeping here. Gotta love these guys and the recycling. I love these guys. Guys. The Mets often took the field with noticeable hangovers. I mean, so if you're in charge of the Mets at this point, you're just kind of like, fuck it. I think no one was in charge. I think he tried, but I think no one was in charge of these guys. Right. Okay. Well, there we go. The grossest of the bunch. His own teammates found him tough to take. He picked his nose in front of the cameras. He spat all over the place. He scratched himself and came to the plate with a wad of tobacco the size of a Hershey bar sticking out of his mouth. In 1989, the Mets sent Lenny to the Philadelphia Phillies in a surprise trade. The trade was apparently the result of Lenny's off field behavior. Dijkstra was considered a liability due to his heavy drinking and partying. To what extent that was true was apparently debatable at the time, but Lenny did have several run-ins with the law regarding his off field behavior. He also had a lot of injuries. On the field injuries or party injuries? Yeah. Well, yeah. Yeah. During a game versus the Dodgers in the 1990s season, Lenny had an on field fight with Rick Dempsey with runners on first and third home plate umpire, Ron Barnes called Philadelphia outfielder Lenny Dijkstra out on strikes in the fifth inning. As Lenny, who was leading the league and hitting at the time, approached the plate with two outs in the seventh, he started complaining to Barnes. He then turned to Dodgers catcher Rick Dempsey, accusing him of brown nosing the umpire. As Dempsey stood up and took off his mask, Lenny dropped his bat and stepped forward. The 40-year-old Dempsey immediately popped him in the face with his glove and followed with a quick right. The two tangled and fell to the ground and the bench is cleared. Seconds later, Dempsey was on the bottom of the huge pile. Quote, Somebody grabbed my face when we rolled on the ground said Dempsey, who ended up with a large wealth on the side of his face. After I saw the replay, I saw it was Dijkstra. He grabbed me by the side of my face and squeezed every pimple I had. I have a lot of respect for him as a player, but he's an idiot as a person. Although Lenny was a three-time All-Star and helped Philadelphia reach the 1993 World Series, his off-field behavior was always a problem. In 1991, Lenny was placed on probation by Baseball Commissioner Fave Vincent for involvement in an illegal gambling ring. I mean, he's really spreading his wings and flying. It's amazing that he also sustained that level for that, like that you think at some point you would, because a lot of times guys will be like partiers and then they'll sort of balance out. There wasn't that much scrutiny back then as there is now. Well, Dave, this is before Twitter. This is before Twitter, but the guy who, the quarterback for Cleveland, is a classic case right now of a guy who could get away with it back there. He just likes to roll his $20 bills really tight. If you're talking about that picture, I'm going to need to see the cocaine go into his nose. Gotcha. Okay. Lenny was the star witness for the prosecution in a case against... Right there. It's never a good sign. It's not the star witness. Lenny Dykstra. Never a good sign. Against Herbert Kelso, who was raided by the feds for running a betting parlor in Mississippi, the raid uncovered four checks totaling $78,000 written to Lenny, written to buy Lenny to Kelso's lawn supplies company. That's some really... I need seeds. That's some really shitty money laundering. Yeah, the whole thing. It seems very... They were like, we found the checks. I get like $100,000 with the lawn work done every month. Is that right? Yeah. And what does he do? We just... Because you see me, nails, I play really hard on the lawn and I dig it up a lot. Get in this car with us. What? Get in the car. Okay, I'm going to get in the car. I'm going to dive in head first. At the door. Lenny's testimony revealed that the checks were for gambling debts he racked up during the off season playing poker and golf. He was playing golf for money. Like $1,000 a hole. Yeah. Sure. That's not surprising. He tried to laugh off the debts by telling the media, quote, it's no big deal, dude. I had a couple of full houses and I got beat by four of a kind. Bam. Uh-oh. Wow. Yeah. Wow. A few months later, Lenny nearly died in a car crash with Darren Dalton after driving home drunk from a bachelor party. A resident where the accident occurred said that when he rushed out to help, he saw a badly wrecked $93,000 Mercedes facing the wrong way on the right side of the road. Two men, one of them lying in the middle of the road with his face covered by blood and dirt and a bunch of crumpled $100 bills scattered on the floor of the back seat of the car like discarded candy wrappers. What? I just love that anybody lives a life where they're just crumpling up $100 bills and throwing it in the back of the car. A $30,000 car in the back with just a bunch of crumpled $100 bills. Lenny suffered three broken ribs, a broken right collarbone and a broken right cheekbone. A broken rib punctured his lung and his heart was bruised. His ego, strong as ever. I'm fine, you guys. Let's play tomorrow. I could still be an asshole, Doc. Dalton, the Phillies catcher suffered a broken left eye socket, a scratch left cornea and a bruised heart. They both had bruised hearts. Let's listen. Was that from? I've been there. Yeah. Was that because they were sad? Yeah. You know, you think you know someone and then according to the police, Lenny's. The next thing you know. Oh, sorry, my down to the... No, you've done. Lenny's blood... It's just so... Sorry, go ahead. According to Radler, Lenny's blood alcohol contact was measured at.179 shortly after the crash. That's D's. Yeah, it's D's. D's level. It's up there. That's crumpled hundreds level. That is crumpled hundreds level. So Lenny was plagued by injuries during the remainder of his career, which is weird. You'd think after you, you know, crashed your car. Yeah. So, because of steroid use swirl, he played last season in 1996. He officially retired at the young age of 33, which is pretty young for a baseball. That's young, but it's also nice to see that he moved to steroids because it's finally a drug that actually might help his on the field performance instead of just completely thwart it, undercut what he does. Everyone in baseball thought the same thing about Dijkstra, that he'd vanish and never be heard from again, says a former teammate. There was no reason to think he'd amount to much of anything. That perception pissed Lenny off in a major way. He always felt he had to prove himself. Don't make Dijk's mad. Hence, in 1993, with his career coming to an end and his will to succeed as strong as ever, Lenny looked around Southern California and sought a way to apply his competitiveness and drive in another arena. Oh boy. Car washes. Oh, okay. Stop. Eggs. No, no, no. Don't you dare. What? Don't you dare move on. What are you talking about? Nails is going to wash some cars. Let me get those vehicles. What? Executive car washes, to be exact. Oh, those are the guys with the dry rags. To Lenny, the idea seemed laughably simple. In 1994, the American economy was booming and the beginning of the tech bubble was turning much of Orange County into a fountain of big money, big houses, and fancy cars. Yet most of the car washes were dumpy grade C setups. Not Lenny's. Oh boy. Within nine years, his three SoCal based car wash, quick lube establishments were grossing millions. A treatment at Dijkstra's cost three or four bucks more than a competing business, but Lenny's establishments were all class. He loaded up the buildings with baseball memorabilia and saltwater fish tanks. Oh, well of course then you should go pay four dollars more to get your fucking car washed. He's got baseball memorabilia and a tank. Fish tanks. Free coffee was always available and the columns at the gas station were painted every day. Wait. I know. Okay. Yeah. That I think is maybe the craziest thing you've said so far. I mean, can you imagine being the guy's job? What do you do every day? I repaint columns. So it's wet every day. Yeah, every day it's fucking wet. People like, how long is this paper? Don't let it get wet. Jesus Christ. Did you just paint it? Yeah, every day. We paint it every day. Do you want to look at an octopus? Jesus Christ. So did he have money? I mean, did he have money left over from MLB? Yeah, he made a lot of money. He just car washing competitively was just a passion. Yeah. Okay. He had the pumps waxed every day and if anything got scratched, it was immediately replaced. Jesus. Lenny made certain all his relatives had jobs. Both brothers, Brian and Kevin worked at the car washes. Oh, that's weird. I thought he was healing another brother. All right. As did his uncle. Lenny treated his family members to Vegas vacations, pricey meals and all night parties. I love that he's partying all night with his family. Yeah, still. Yeah. Yeah. Just cast the net into the family. Bring them down with you, Dyches. Lenny was sued in relation to the car wash in 2005. The lawsuit filed by former business partner Lindsay Jones alleged that Lenny used steroids and told Jones to place bets on Philly games in 1993 when Lenny was on the team. So, okay. Oh, wait. So this is when he was on the team, she said. I thought for a minute that she was pissed that he was using steroids to wash cars. Well, that's how it sounded at first, didn't it? And that would be fucking awesome. Let's get these guard yelts and clean. Jesus Christ, the paint's off this one. Yeah, it's fucking awesome. Finally. As he's just swimming in the seawater in his tank. Why is my Buick dented? I'm really good at it. Actually ma'am, you caused the cleanest it's ever been. The suit includes a sworn declaration from a Florida bodybuilder who is a convicted drug dealer who said, let he paid him $20,000 plush quote special perks during their eight year association to bulk up the once slight ball player. In an interview, Jeff Scott said he injected Dyches with steroids more times than I can count and that Lenny stepped up his steroid use in spring training of 1993 because quote, it was a contract year. Many fans speculated he was taking steroids due to his rapid change in size. Now the Philadelphia Phillies were not the first, the Elklin A's were the first, but the Philadelphia Phillies were gigantic monsters. And they were clearly all on steroids. Right. This is when you first started that like. This is the beginning of it all. And Mark McGuire is like, Hey, he's a normal guy. It's like Jesus Christ. He's purple. He's purple. Holy shit. A face isn't supposed to be purple, is it? My God. He's a jacked thumb. Leonard Lenny admitted to steroid use in his book quote, you know, I was like a pioneer for that stuff. Oh, of course. I was like the very, very first to do that. Amazing. Amazing. So instead of just being like, I didn't do it. He's like, no, man, I was the first guy. Or just even being like, you know, look, it was a tough time. I was really, it was a contract. Jerry's like, yeah, I did it. Fucking new room. For everyone else. Yeah, that's right. At first it wasn't even. I'm the guy that let people know your balls shrink quote. At first it wasn't even illegal. Then after a few years, I had to just go to a doctor and get a prescription. You know how I got my stuff just walking into a pharmacy, bro. It was as simple as that. You got to understand there are only 28 people have my job in the whole world. He said that, but he's referring to the the 28 teams. Okay. So he's confusing teams and people are the shocking that a man with an ego so large would think of himself as a team. I'm the same as a team. You know, there's only 28 other guys like me teams. Thousands of people wanted these jobs every year. There were guys trying to take my job. So I didn't need to do anything I could to protect it, to take care of my family. You haven't any damage money was a stake. Do you 25 million dollars, bro? That's how much money he made. The bros, the bros make anyone less likable. I mean, you got to love the bro. Bros bros are just like an angry bro. What are you talking about, bro? It's like, Oh God. Around the same time Lenny was deep into his car washes, he discovered that his once robust stock portfolio had taken a dramatic downturn. Upon retiring from the Phillies, he had divided 2 million into three different investment accounts by 2002 that some had dwindled to 400,000. Never want to sit down with a newspaper or book Lenny committed himself to learning how to invest following the markets like a seasoned broker purchasing his first laptop and addictively stocking the internet. By 2006, he owned the three car washes, a shopping plaza and a gas station and was building a retail center and was as famous for his financial wizardry as he had been for playing baseball. Wow. Lenny opened his own trade account and was hired as a stock market columnist for the street, the street.com, a site co-founded by Jim Mad Money Kramer. Oh my God. That actually makes sense that Jim Kramer would be like, Yeah, get me that cycle. Well, no, Jim Kramer has a long history of just of just recommending horseshit. Well, he's the epitome of what awful news networks do, which is that they deliver bullshit and then they never bring up when it's just off as fuck. He's just he's just a loud guy screaming nonsense. Hits a big red button, talks shit and then never looks back. I wonder why I liked Lenny. His life in high finance included an investment website co-founded by Kramer where subscribers paid $999. I thought you were going to say a thousand for a minute and now it's going to be like too rich for my blood. It's close. $999.95. Oh boy. Because I always know it's a quality investment site when they give you a five cents off. Listen, a thousand is hard to see. That nickel you could find in your couch, though. That's a difference maker. Subscribers would pay $995.95 a year to get Lenny's options picks. That's ridiculous. I mean, that's just that's just I love I do love that though. When someone's like, How did I make millions by my bullshit handbook? He was even featured on HBO's Real Sports with Brian Gumbel for his savvy business strategies. In 2008 Kramer raved to Gumbel, quote, if I didn't know any better, I tell you that everything you hear from Lenny is an act because there's no way you'd ever feel like he's as smart as he really is. But he's one of the great ones in this business. Compliment or not a compliment is everything about this guy seems like he's a fucking idiot. That man is he not. Yeah, that's the nicest thing someone could say about all Lenny. As that for a sales pitch, you look like a fucking moron. In 2006, he turned increasingly paranoid and some say delusional. He became convinced that his brothers were stealing from him and fired both. Employees came and went like the wind, having undergone treatment for alcoholism in 1999. Dijkstra insisted to people he was clean. According to many who knew him, however, this was a lie. He was definitely using drugs as his brother, Brian. I'm not sure what stuff was going into his body and when, but he wasn't clean. I mean, I knew who he was getting his pills from. Jesus. In March, in March 2006, Lenny hired Dorothy Van Kalsbeek as his new accountant. Gorgeous name. Yep. A 49 year old mother of three, she had spent most of her adult life self employed, helping people learn accounting software. She knew little of Lenny other than he was supposed to be a financial savant with a mightest touch, but there was one giant problem. Oh, no. Lenny was even better at spending money than he was at making it. He wanted to know on a daily basis how much money the car washers were bringing in, but he didn't pay attention to the amount he was spending and Lenny only wanted the best. Lenny then decided he wanted out of the car wash business. The thing that's been the thing that's just fucking kicking ass, making tons of money. I'm getting out. He's firing fish. The fuck out of here. The octopus is fired. I want the octopus out of here by the time I come back. Sorry octopus. You'd know. No good. I know. I know. Like I go. No, well, I go. I'm octopus. Where I go? Lenny, this is a talking octopus. Should we really get this out of here? Come on, man. You're kind of keeping it right. Get rid of him. You've looked at me that motherfucker. Oh, but come on. Come on, man. We could sell tickets to a talking octopus show. Seriously, I'm talking octopus. Look, he's fucking talking, right? Get him out of there. Jesus. Cut his tongue out. I got nowhere to go. His English is better than most of the car washers. So in 2006, he sold his North Corona car wash for 11 million. Jesus. Then a year later, he pedaled the two remaining car washes to seven partners for 43 million. I mean, what? How? Wow. Lenny had debts, though. Oh, boy. So about 20 million went to paying off loans. Still, there's a lot of green. 33 million left over. Now Lenny was set for people washing cars. Yeah. Yeah. Now Lenny is set. He had more than 4 million invested, owned a $5.4 million, 9,000 square foot home on the first fairway of the exclusive Sherwood Country Club, a loving wife, Terry and two kids, Cutter and Luke. I gotta say. Luke got shortchanged. I'm just gonna say right now. Don't name your kid Cutter. This is Luke and this is my weird boy Cutter. What happened to your arms? Let's just say it's not Luke. Okay? Luke's my angel. Cutter, put those shears down. Jesus Christ. I'm gonna do my legs. Oh, God, no. Cutter. But Lenny felt unsatisfied. Shocking. As far as Lenny was concerned, he didn't have enough. Although the house he and Terry owned was huge, it paled in comparison to the mansion located five hundred yards away. The one owned by Wayne Gretzky. Okay, so, well- What the fuck? How can a guy who might be the best at any sport ever have a bigger fucking house than me? Look, he's in the NHL Hall of Fame. I'm in the Car Wash Hall of Fame. Give me what he has. Where? The mansion, the Gretzky mansion, came on the market for seventeen point five million in 2007. Well, I'm gonna, just knowing the history of LD, I'm gonna say that, you know, he's really just anxious to meet his new neighbors. Nails wants it. Nails, no, no, no, no. Nails wants it. No, no. Let me, let me also just say that 2007, Gretzky- Perfect time. Perfect time. Gretzky, who's a very wise businessman, very well known to be a very wise businessman. Perfect time to buy. I looked at the market, what was happening in the market and saw some sort of housing crash coming. A huge bubble. Somebody jumped out. Yeah, and Lenny was like dumbass. And somebody jumped in. Oh no. In August, Lenny became the owner of the twelve thousand plus square foot Gretzky estate. Is that literally the worst time to buy a house? It couldn't be worse. Right, it's literally as bad as it could be. He bought the biggest house at the worst time. I love that we laugh at this shit. I think about that every now and then, like it'll be like, and then his parents died. You're like, oh man, I can't believe they drowned. All right, what's next, DA? It was complete with a tennis court, three outside guest houses, an enormous pool. Lenny called it the best house in the world. And planned to flip it. What the fuck? This is seventeen point five million. Flip it. Flip it for what? It's the fucking, you just paid top dollar for a giant house. You have to flip it, you have to fucking fix it up. You have to buy a dump and fix it up and then sell it. Exactly, like how much upside are you going to be looking at at a place that way? You're going to be like, I made nineteen five. I'm going to sell this thing for eighteen. Pocket myself a sweet point five million. For those three years of hard work. Jesus Christ. His monthly payments would be a hundred and twenty thousand dollars. Oh my God. Shortly thereafter, Lenny spent two million on a Gulfstream jet. What is he doing? Is he just prepping for one shoot of lifestyles of the rich and famous and then not worrying about the after effect? I'll let me finish talking about the jet. No. He bought it for two million. No. And then he spent another five hundred thousand on upgrades to have the inside of the plane look identical to the interior of his car. Oh my God, dude. With drapes and all. Oh my God. I was so excited to hear what you were going to say at the end. If you said the Met's Clubhouse, I was going to find that weird to make a plane look like your car. What is that? What? Hey. Hey, so are you guys do good interior work? With the best extra. Yeah. You see my car over there? Yeah. I want my plane car to match on the inside. I'm sorry? I want my plane and my car to match on the inside. So sometimes I can tell. I don't know if you've seen the inside of the plane, but it is beautiful. Right. But sometimes I want to not be able to know where I am when I wake up. Cool. So turn the plane into a car. That's what I'm talking about. I could see why everyone calls you an idiot on the outside. Stupid as nails. I get it. Yeah, exactly. By the way, I love your nails. His accountant said the plane was breathtaking, but really unwise. Breathtaking in the sense that you're like, my God, he'll lose everything. That's the whole jet thing was a bad idea. Lenny's justification was that he flew so much for business. It was a worthy expense, but it wasn't. It was just crazy. I mean, who flies $2.5 million worth? No, Dorothy said she warned her boss that he was spending too much money. Lenny didn't see it that way because he had an idea that would make him, in his words, a billionaire. I mean, at this point, what's going to stop him? 2008 is a plane washer at a time when nobody with a brain would start up a print magazine. Oh my God. What is he doing? Two things, we're going into magazines and we're going into the typewriters. He went into real estate at the worst time. And right when the internet is making publications useless, he's like, let's start the magazine. Lenny decided to found a magazine called the Players Club. Lenny's vision was to produce a monthly publication catering specifically to the wants and needs of professional athletes. Oh, so there we go. Okay, so it's something that everybody wants. It's the perfect- Everybody's a relatable thing that anyone can read. Yeah. Okay, cool. It would feature investment strategies, high-priced toys, homes and automobile tips, luxury vacations, everything geared toward the rich and famous. How to go bankrupt in two years. It's how you don't do it by Lenny Dijkstra. Lenny was prepared to give pro athletes advice by writing a regular column called The Game of Life. Hey, all right. By Lenny Dijkstra. Fuck yeah. Slide it a second with your head out front. Take a bunch of hundred dollar bills and crumple them up nice. Then get in a car wreck. Then go into 93,000 dollars. Buy a giant house for no reason. The house is still amazing. Quote, this will be the world's best magazine. Hey, oh well with that attitude. Take this National Geographic. Yes, suck at time. And Lenny's business plan extended beyond the magazine. We're creating a lifestyle, he said, and he emphasized that he wanted to encourage athletes in their prime to set up, set aside half a million dollars a year in customized retirement accounts, thereby ensuring, quote, recurring cash flow for life. Yep. The opposite of what I'll do. Yeah. He described this once by drawing a small circle, right? That of which he wrote the letters TPC for the Players Club. And next he drew a large circle around it. Oh, interesting. And then he began connecting the two circles with lines. Oh, so this. So it spoke spokes on a wheel, it looked like. Right, okay. And on the spokes, he called them building bridges. And he wrote things like annuity, private jets, real estate, and concierge. And I saw this at a business marketing weekend event. Yeah. I mean, concierge. He wrote concierge. What is that? Concierge, he said, was for when you forgot your wife's birthday and you're in the on deck circle and you go, oh, no, hey, Batboy, go call the concierge for the Players Club. Tell him to get flowers for my wife and tell her I love her. Sorry, I'm still not clear on what the hell a concierge is in his world. Well, a concierge is for when you're a fucking idiot. But and you and you're playing baseball. Yeah, no, you're about to swing and you forget your anniversary. You forget your anniversary or you're like, oh, I didn't leave. I left the lights on in my place and then you call up in the concierge. But how is that one of his building bridges? It's a life concierge. Yeah, but how does that how is like all the other things sound like they're at least the theory behind them is investing in your future. Not great. Not right advice or great advice. But how does having a concierge? Am I talking crazy because I feel like you're on Lenny's side. It's a concierge. OK, all right. As long as we've cleared that up nicely. And is he the Players Club offering a specific concierge? The Players Come comes with a concierge. It's part of the magazine. You know what? I'm going to stop asking questions about the concierge. The plan was for the Players Club to go straight to 20,000 players lockers and would penetrate a quote, $60 billion industry. The professional sports market. His was a magazine by millionaires, four millionaires. And by using it as a vehicle for selling financial products, Lenny projected that within 10 years, there'd be an 11.6 billion in players assets for him to manage. I mean, what a psycho. As long as athletes were getting paid for playing sports, there'd be a market for the Players Club. Or as Lenny put it himself, we're recession proof, baby. No. Because we're making a magazine for the rich. Right. We all know how the rich handle the recession. What could go wrong? Spend, spend, spend. I love to spend money. Yeah. It's trickle down. This would all work with his website called Nails Investments. The first amazing that that's a website too. Because the amount of time someone would be like, what the fuck is this when they just want Lee Pressons? What is this shit? The First Players Club featuring Derek Jeter on the cover. Whoops. Came out on April 1st, 2008. Lenny seemed to see the magazine as a chance to prove how successful he was. Each issue began with an ode to Lenny column. Lenny insisted the publication be based out of an office at 245 Park Avenue in Manhattan. Oh, so a cheap area. Well, when you're starting a magazine, you want to start small. You want to pay the most amount. You want to pay the most for everything. Yeah. The best thing about magazines is, and anybody will tell us who started a magazine, high overhead. Right in the back. Well, you want the... Yeah. I'm right away. You want the illusion that you've been doing it for 10 successful years. Yes. That's the way to do it. Yeah. And you should start off by saying... Start big. It's our 50th year anniversary. Hey, can you believe it? 11.6 billion dollars later. Here I sit. Lenny called it one of the top five addresses in the world, and the rent was about 17,000 per month. He's a little Trumpish in a way, in the sense that he likes to label the things the most amazing in the world. When they're dorsh-it. When they're just like, you know, nice, but come on. It's a golf course. Lenny had high expectations for the magazine and placed unrealistic demands on his employees. Based out of California, he would call his New York staff at all hours of the night, screaming, babbling, and yelling, all with the help of Adderall. Oh, God. He would stay up for days on a never sleeping, never resting. Jesus. So it's going well. It's not going well. He's really going to be like Doc Gooden at the parade at no time. Can't go to the magazine. A former employee of the magazine recalled, editorial brainstorming sessions fueled by Coca-Cola and Ice Cream Sundaes typically lasted until dawn. But this did not mean that things were getting done. Most meetings were simply extended hangout sessions with Lenny cracking up at his own jokes or asking us to watch the real sports segment over and over. This is definitely not a guy on drugs. No, let's watch again. Let's watch again. Let's get the part where I yell, I'm going to be a billionaire. Watch again. Watch again. Also, a cup of water would be great. A cup of water would be good. God, my face feels weird. Do you guys feel my face? God, look at this big pong ball. Now let's make a magazine. Right? He would especially love the moment where Lenny points to his seat on his private plane and said, this is where the big man sits. Oh, God. Come on. He's just a psycho. It's a guy. This is where the big man sits. Who keeps making his employees watch a segment on a TV show where he points to his seat and says this is where the big man sits. It's not only on his plane and this plane that he designed to be a car. This is where the big man sits. He also seemed to relish letting go a long, leisurely fart for amusement of his employees or showing off his silk tie and saying, you see this tie? I paid 500 for it and then he would rub it on his crotch. I just, I would love to work there just for a little bit. Just to be like, what the fuck? $500? Yeah. Oh, God. Other times. And it just rips one. Lenny's attempts at humor were downright offensive. At one of these. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought those were the downright offensive. Now he's going to get really hard one. He went on about how a particular layout looked faggy. Despite the presence. Well, that's a fair note. Despite the presence of a gay page designer in the room. Later Lenny said, did you see the look on that fag's face? On another occasion, Lenny called about potential cover subjects while the employee was at home. So with Lenny Lenny knowingly on speaker, he proudly stated that nobody can call me racist. I put three darkies and a bitch on my first four covers. Oh my God. Yeah, he's a fucking monster. Jesus Christ. This isn't this isn't 1960 anymore. Right. Well, do you want to hear the names of the darkies? I believe I know one of the Derek Jeter. Yeah. Chris Paul Tiger Woods. Holy shit. And the bitch was Danico Patrick. Those are strong, strong words. Yeah. Okay. So he somehow managed. Those are legit darkies and a bitch. He somehow managed to play sports and be a fucking racist. Yeah. Which is to me incredible that anyone can, the Jeff Kents of the world who can be these fucking racist and play alongside. Yeah. Black guy. And be overt. And be overt. Yeah. Like just another former employee also like Lenny's. So my magazine three darkies and a bitch is actually going to be coming out. I think it's September. It starts. You're going to call it that? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I wish you luck. Thank you. It seems like the right time. Oh, no, I agree. Yeah. Also, I bought a yacht. What do you want? I'm going to make it look like a bike. Another former former employee also recalled Lenny's special brand of humor. What a very sweet way of putting it. Lenny liked to leave a large amount of feces in the toilet so he could hear the shrieks of the hotel's grossed out maids. Oh my God. He's like 50. He's 50. He's like 50 at this point. What an awful. That's awful. By this point Lenny's behavior was increasing. You're taking some time. I'm sorry, sweetheart. Oh, did I shit on the floor? My bad. Hey, maybe you don't know who I am. I'm just like this nails. By this point Lenny's behavior was increasingly erratic. He used the Gretzky house and the plane to secure multiple loans and began crossing the line from merely unethical to completely criminal. Lenny borrowed credit cards and money from seemingly everyone, his employees, his accountant, and even his mother, always with unfulfilled promises of great reward. Quote, I'd never actually loaned Lenny a credit card, said Chris Franke, a senior editor at the magazine, but I still wound up with credit card charges related to Lenny. That's, that's a fun. That's how you know you got a buddy. You want to go to lunch? Oh, I forgot my card. You want to pay for this? Uh, a victim of poor leadership, poor economy and mediocre sales. The players club died in the winter of 2008 after seven issues. Well, how many more bitches and darkies did he get on? I don't know how this can happen. It's a fucking $7 idea. Seven. It's a billion dollar idea. Seven months. Seven magazines. Seven magazines. Seven. Lenny was in ruins. His wife filed for divorce and Lenny was drinking again. That coupled with his alleged drug use, rendered him a stumbling, mumbling version of his former self. Well, don't you miss the car wash days? Oh man. An extensive article about an ESPN.com investigation came out in April 2009 and asserted that Lenny had been the subject of at least two dozen legal actions since 2007. A former employee accused Lenny of credit card fraud, failure to pay rent on the magazine's Park Avenue offices and. Oh, it's a very top five location. Yeah. He filed for lawsuits and printing costs in 2009. Lenny filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, listing less than 50,000 assets against more than 31 million in liability. Holy shit. Lenny said his filing was about reorganization, not bankruptcy. I'm not bankrupt. Oh, boy. I'm just moving some money around. Yep. I'm moving money from places where I owe people to, to play, to places where it's mine. As MC Hammer stood behind him nodding. And the fall of 2009, the case was converted to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy to liquidate the estate and pay creditors. The Gretzky mansion was gone. The fancy car was gone. The private jet was gone. His 1986 World Series gone auctioned for 56,000 dollars. His ring? His ring was auctioned off. He was banned from both of his foreclosed multi-million dollar properties in Lake Sherwood. So he didn't sell the other one when he bought the new one. Okay. Smart. Yeah, so security officers were instructed to deny him access to the homes. He was accused of vandalizing the properties and not maintaining home owners' insurance on them. And the court assigned a trustee to manage them. Lenny was living out of his car. You made his jet. And an airplane hanger. And in hotel lobbies. Oh my God. He eventually settled into his shitty apartment. Quote. I was like a wanderer, dude. I was like Gandhi. He lived out of a bag. Yeah, by choice. So. You had a point. But also, there's a point where you stop comparing yourself to the greats. Yeah. Yeah. And when you're living in a hotel lobby. Yeah. Out of a bag. Yeah. And washing your genitals in the sink. Oh, pardon me for being Gandhi. You know, to a one point, he snuck in like, how many times was he watching that real time or the real sports? Oh my God. Oh my God. That's all he had was a videotape of that. He was like, he just be in a hotel lobby like, anyway, you guys could put that on and give me the remote. Actor, sorry, author, Randall Lane, who wrote the book, quote, the zeros my misadventure in the decade, Wall Street went insane. Describe Lenny as a slow motion car wreck. He is the perfect metaphor for what happened to many people. But he did it on a scale that was monumental. Wow. That's the guy who wrote the book about Wall Street. It's true though. I mean, honestly, like all this stuff you said, it really like buying it. The wrong time buying big everything. So being brash. Yes. Selling the car washers, selling all the car washes to start a publication for the rich for the rich. The Gretzky house was riddled with water damage, torn up floor, flooring, missing toilets and other major damage. Missing toilets is a weird thing that happens. That totally sure. Look, if you need some boxes, sell a toilet. Where are the four toilets? Huh? I can get probably get a break. I get 800 for this toilet. So, um, I need some steroids. How much can I get for two toilets? His second house also in the churid development was uninhabitable due to toxic mold. According to papers filed in court, one of the houses in question was in quote, unshowable condition as the home was littered throughout with empty beer bottles, trash, dog feces and urine and other unmentionables. That ain't dog feces. Ross sewage had been leaking inside the house and the electrical wiring had been damaged or removed by vandals. More than two dozen lawsuits were filed against Dykstra with a list of more than 50 creditors. Among those litigants was author Lane, the former owner of Double Town, Double Down Media, which produced the Players Club. Lane attributes the glossy's failure in part to Lenny's unrestrained spending because it might have worked if he just started a tiny office and just see if it would perhaps. Yeah. Probably not. Probably not. But it might have. As an example, Lane cites a launch party for the Players Club that turned into a $600,000 party at the Mandarin Oriental Ballroom in New York attended by tennis star John McEnroe, Donald Trump, Kramer and other elites of the business and sports world. Imagine just how much you wish you had that night back. You know, when you're in the shit, when you're Gandhi. Oh, what if I hadn't spent $600,000 on that party? I could really use that $600,000 right now. Not as bankruptcy. He was seen soliciting still soliciting 995 year subscriptions to his newsletter at www.nailsinvestments.com. Wait. So he's lost it all. He's got totally bankrupt, right? But he's still trying to get people to subscribe to his now internet website. Oh, this can be yours. You pooped in a pizza box. So. Hey, how much? How much do you think you would pay for failure? A thousand dollars a year in my nine part strategic plan. Lenny, you have puke on you. Listen, make your boat look like your bathroom. It's all very simple. Turn your helicopter into a motorcycle. Nails claimed he had a record of better than 100 to zero in stock option calls. Well, I think we might take issue with that. It's a perfect record. In June 2010, the court appointed federal trustee and Lenny's bankruptcy case, church, he had line under oath and properly hidden and sold assets and repeatedly acted in a fraudulent and deceitful manner during his ongoing bankruptcy case. The items ranged from sports memorabilia to a $50,000 sink. Oh, man. I don't. We could just leave that one. Fuck it. At one point, he sold a truckload of furnishing and fixtures for cash at a consignment store, according to a statement from the U.S. Attorney's Office. Oh, my God. Lenny was sentenced to house arrest after the bankruptcy fraud indictment. In 2010, Lenny was accused by ex-porn actress Monica Foster that he hired for a night and then wrote her a bad check for $1,000. She later posted a photocopy of the bounce check on her blog. Quote, he's a coward. I know in his eyes he just screwed over a hooker and he thinks he can just treat people like crap because he was once a big name, said Foster, who starred in X-rated titles like Not the Cosby's, Triple X, and Flavor of Lust. But Bill Cosby was in Not the Cosby's, right? Hand to me. Is that really Bill Cosby? You like a little cocktail? 2011. Also, I don't know who's crazier. I don't know if the prostitute or the porn star taking the check is crazier. Yeah. Or a check. A check. A check. I don't understand why she would be like, he's got money. Lenny does, I mean he's in a big house that's got shit all over the place. Still, he's Gandhi. 2011 was a big year for Lenny. In January, Lenny was accused of sexual assault by his housekeeper who alleged that he would force her to give him oral sex on Saturdays. Oh my God, that is a little too specific for me. The woman told investigators she needed the job and the money so she went along with his request rather than lose her job and returned to work in his home with knowledge obtained from the internet about a claim of sexual assault by another woman. She's reading online that he's sexually assault women. She needs a job so bad that she will blow him on Saturday. A fucking shitty job. He's a monster. Oh, Saturday's things really throw me for a game day. Oh my God. May 2011, Doc Gooden got an unexpected visit from Lenny during Gooden's stint on celebrity rehab. As Gooden described it, it was around 10 o'clock and I was getting ready to go to bed and all of a sudden one of the guys behind the scene says, Dijkstra's here. Wait at the actual rehab facility? He's taping celebrity rehab and Lenny Dijkstra shows up. Yeah. Okay, continue. They tried to get Lenny to sign a waiver and he wouldn't do that. He was all crazy. Lenny was like, Doc, you all right? I don't like this. I got your bags. Let's get out of here. Gooden said he tried to calm Lenny down and convince him that he wasn't being hypnotized by the show's host, Dr. Drupinski. He just assumed that Doc Gooden was being hypnotized. Doc, I got your bags. Let's go. I haven't talked to you in 20 years. Doc, don't look at the coin. Don't look at the fucking coin. What are you talking about? Let's get out of here. He's a therapist. Lenny expressed concern about Dr. Pinsky when he sneaked into Gooden's room on the set. God, I wish he signed that release. I said, quote, everything is cool, Lenny. Gooden said. Lenny eventually left without Gooden, asked if Dijkstra had ever returned his bags. Gooden laughed and said no. Wait, so it's just a bag heist. He backed up his shit and left. All right, Doc. Well, you seem like you got this under control. Okay, so this was basically a burglary. See you later, buddy. All right, it's called the slow pill. I'm back, baby. April 13, 2011. Lenny was arrested for an investigation of Grand Theft Auto by Los Angeles police at his Encino home on suspicion of trying to buy a stolen car. April 14, 2011. Lenny was arrested and charged with bankruptcy fraud. It was reported that a week later, Charlie Sheen paid $22,500 towards the $150,000 bail that was set for his old buddy Nails. She made a statement, quote, the rendition guilty trolls that kidnapped my dear friend Nails clearly forgot that he's a fellow Vatican assassin and his best pal is a warlock. So, this, sorry, is there more? Lenny had previously come to Sheen's aid, hiring a top lord to negotiate the troubled actress returned to 2 and a half men after he was fired. Right, so this, exactly. So this is when Charlie Sheen went fucking apeshit crazy and was on drugs very clearly. What this says is that Charlie and Lenny have been doing meth. Yeah. He's a fellow warlock who's a Vatican assassin. June 2011, Lenny was arrested and charged with 25 misdemeanors and felony counts of Grand Theft Auto Identity Fet filing false financial statements and possession of cocaine, ecstasy, and steroids. He first pled not guilty to all the charges, but later his plea was reduced to no contest to Grand Theft Auto and providing false financial statements in exchange for dropping the auto, for dropping the drug charges. A year later, after unsuccessfully trying to withdraw his no contest plea, you should have never sold the car washes, sir. For God's sake. He was sentenced to three years in state prison and received nearly a year's credit for time already served. In June 2011, Lenny appeared in federal bankruptcy court and pled not guilty to 13 charges. He was represented by a public defender and faced up to 80 years in prison, if convicted, of all charges relating to embezzlement, obstruction of justice, bankruptcy fraud, making false statements to the bankruptcy court, and concealing property from the bankruptcy court. In 2011, Lenny was charged with indecent exposure. These are just sad, sad crimes. The Los Angeles City Attorney accused him of placing ads on Craigslist requesting a personal assistant or housekeeping services. The victims alleged that when they arrived, they were informed that the job also required a massage service. Lenny would then disrobe and expose himself. In July 2012, Lenny pleaded guilty in federal court to three felonies, one count each of bankruptcy fraud, concealment of assets, and money laundering. He admitted to hiding, selling, or destroying over $400,000 worth of items that were supposed to be part of his bankruptcy filing. On December 3, 2012, he was sentenced to 6.5 months in prison, 500 hours of community service, and ordered to pay $200,000 in restitution. Lenny Dykstra, nails to millions of baseball fans, was now inmate number 2766176, inside Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, Men's Central Jail, confined to his cell for 23 hours a day. And by the way, that's a fucking brutal jail. I mean, you do not want to be in LA County Sheriff's Jail. It's a jail where the guards have been proven to have been basically gangs and they are torturing prisoners and beating prisoners. Every sheriff in LA County has to work in the LA County Jail for three years. They hate it. They take it out on the prisoners. It's just this abusive fucking nightmare. Well, that's good. His cell was approximately 8x6 block of stone with a toilet in a sink. Meals were passed beneath a steel door. And thanks to years of chewing, he couldn't even enjoy those, as he only had three of his four teeth remaining in his mouth. Oh, wait. Oh my God. Lenny was released from prison in June 2013. And it turns out that while he was in prison, his website, Nails Investment, was in operation the whole time. Apparently, his accountant, Dorothy Van Kalsbeek, already knew his system and wrote his columns and picked his stocks with his oversight. They consulted about the market and letters and during her visits to the prison. He's currently planning an autobiography that he hopes will become a movie. Yep. In an interview with LA Times, Lenny described the situation this way. I've been fighting my whole life. That's why I have a new theme song, dude, and I'm going to play it for you. Oh, God, sweet. God, yes. I wish I knew what the, I'll read you the lyrics. I want to be a billionaire so bad, buy all the things I never had. I want to be on the cover of Forbes magazine, smiling next to Oprah and the Queen. He sang loudly in off key. Oh. Lenny receives a 5,700. Wait, do we know what song that is? Wow, it's a Travis McCoy song. Sure. Okay. Lenny now receives a 5,700 dollar monthly pension from Major League Baseball. Ah, Jesus Christ. I mean, what a meteoric rise and fall. Holy shit. Wow. That's a guy who that's like one of the most spectacular fall. Six grand a month. Yeah, I mean, he can still get six grand a month. But even then, you think. But you know he won't. Oh, no. Like anybody could live off six grand easily. Easily. Easily. Yes. You know he won't. Well, I mean, he's got to hire the maids to blow him. So that's, that's too grand a month. He's still got to get the magazine going. You got to get the magazine going. But even after all that shit, after all the sexual assault charges, and I think I skipped a part where he, he was, one of the employees that is, at his car wash accused him of touching her, that she's a 17 year old. Oh my God. So he, he committed all these sexual crimes and he committed so much fraud that it's fucking insane. He should be imprisoned for, he should be imprisoned for life compared to the digits who just sell drugs on a street corner. Yeah. People sell weed. This guy did so much more fucking damage. Yeah. So much more damage. And he's plotting a comeback. Well, he's going to have a comeback. Yeah. Honestly, name one difference between his life and Gandhi's. I can't. You can't, right? They're both a couple of dudes wandering around with a bag. Yeah. It's the same thing. Gandhi also had his, his, his boat painted like his show. Yeah. And he was, he was a known Fondler. Because Gandhi said, I want my foyer to look like my boat. Yeah. I remember he always said that. I want to thank Danny, Daniel, Brendel for doing the research on that one. Well, well done to him. Very nice. Yeah. He did a really good job. I believe he's Australian because I got, I had a lot of mates in here and stuff. And I went, oh no, I gave him an Australian guy a baseball story. I felt bad about afterwards. I didn't realize he was Australian. Maybe he's a fan now. I'd be a fan after that. Poor guy to learn about baseball. Would you be a fan after that? Yeah. After hearing about the Rube and Dyke. Come on. Jesus Christ. Couple of heroes. This guy's the opposite of that. Heroes of the game. He seems like, what, the difference between him and the Rube, I would say would be a little more brain power. Because I think if you let the Rube loose with a, you know, a regular human brain, who knows what could happen? Sadly, it was just the sirens. By the way, I have an addendum to last week's dollop. Which the Eric Redd. Oh, okay. So a friend of mine who's a screenwriter was, was a writing around that time and was also, you know, coming up. So he's taking it. This is the guy who crashed into the, who wrote the weird, uh, film. Crash into the bar. Crash into the bar, right? And then the friend said, he listened to the episode and he goes, he goes, oh my God. He goes, so I was writing this, I got, I got paid to adapt this book. And it was the worst book I'd ever read. And it was so fucking hard to adapt. And I was like, so depressed. Like it almost made him kill himself. Like he was at the bottom trying to fucking adapt this book. And every day he just, it was like a nightmare getting out of bed. Like just hell. Right. And then when he finished, the producers then gave the script to Eric Redd to write. Oh, and Eric Redd was working on that script when he crashed into the bar. Oh, get the fuck out of here. So I think there's a curse script out there. It's like the ring. Holy shit. That's insane. You got to feel good about yourself though. If you didn't do it, if you're like, wow, at least I adapted this shit. Oh, I dodged a bullet. Holy shit. Look, I was thinking some crazy shit, but holy shit. All right. Anything else? Nope, I'm good. That's the story of Lenny Dykstra. I hope everyone's happy with that.