 Hello, and you're listening to The Dollop. This is an American History podcast in which each week I, Dave Anthony, read a story to- Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the topic is about. Did you forget your part? No, but I think you say- you've called me your friend in the past. Oh, I didn't say that? No. Whatever. I guess we're on icy ground now. What a friendship ended here. It's an awkward time to end it. God, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one buck. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickle you, Quad. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do a pray. Hi, Gary. No. I'm not my friend. No. No. Okay. 1848. Oh, boy. America. Yeah. Almond D. Fisk. Almond D. Fisk. Someone named their child Almond. Because he's nuts. Either that or there was an auto correct that I didn't notice. Oh, fuck. I think either could have happened. Because Almond's a pretty fucked up name for young Walnut. But not in that time. This is my boy, Tray Trunk. Who gives a fuck? Here's Walnut. He is my boy, Walnut. So Almond D. Fisk was granted the first patent for a cast iron coffin called the Fisk airtight coffin or cast a raised metal in 1848. Okay. In 1849 the cast iron coffin was publicly unveiled at the New York State Agriculture Society Fair in Syracuse, New York. Must have been a great time. It's a great fair. Yeah. Who doesn't want to go to the coffin exhibit at the fair? I do wonder how it was received though because in this time you can't be sure how people, if people be like, well, weirdo. Or if people are like, my goodness, it's the hot of luxury. Holy, look at that casket. It's airtight. I'm there right now. Pistachio, will you buy me it for our anniversary? You darn right, I wills, Dorothy. Known as the Fisk mummy, this metal coffin was a little eerie because it was shaped like a corpse wrapped in a burial shroud. It's interesting. Basically resemmining an Egyptian sarcophagus with sculpted arms and had a glass window to view the face of the cadaver. Okay, well that is terrible. No, it's totally the worst idea ever. It's a window. Yeah, you don't want a window in the decomposing. Just for the face. Yeah, you'd rather the chest. So you look down and the eyes are looking right back up at you. Yeah, the dead eyes as it's starting to erode in the ground. Oh my God, was that a tear? Hey, neighbor. But the glass window could be covered with a metal plate when the coffin was ready for burial. So when you're gonna throw the dirt on the top, you'd put a little metal cover on top of it. What's the point? There's no point in that. Close the shutter. You're gonna be throwing dirt on it. Well, you don't want the dead guy to be no one. Okay. Fisk added accents like drapery, rosewood, and silk fringe to lessen its disturbing impact on prospective buyers. Well, that is just so... If you're adding curtains to a coffin, you've made a disturbing coffin and it's time to redo it. I don't know, curtains are pretty nice. Okay, that's when he's just overordered. He's like, God, I ordered a thousand of these. Let's just put drapes on the inside. Some blinds. The cast iron coffins were popular in the mid-1800s among wealthier families. In response to high demand, Fisk established the Fisk and Raymond Company and began production in Providence, Rhode Island. While pine coffins in the 1850s would have a cost of around $2, a Fisk coffin would command a price upwards of $100. Okay. Nonetheless, the metallic coffins were greatly desired by the more affluent individuals and families for their potential to deter grave robbers. I just love how it's all too avoid having your body taken out of the ground by creeps. It seems like almost everything in the 1800s was about trying to stop people from picking up. Because up until then, it's like, I would just pay the $2. But once you hear like, oh, it's an investment in keeping your body in the ground instead of just like taking and done with whatever they want. In order to keep up with demand, Fisk additionally licensed the right to manufacture the coffins to two larger firms. The design of materials were chosen because of their ability to protect the body and prevent decomposition so that it could endure transportation or delayed internment. For what purpose? Oh, we'll get to that. The airtight cases were... Oh, by the way, horrible answer. That's the classic dollop answer. Yeah, but it's still terrifying. We'll get to that. There's a reason is what you're saying, which is troubling. They were valued for their potential to preserve the remains of individuals who died far from home. According to Fisk's 1848 patent, quote, from a coffin of this description, the air may be exhausted, so completely as entirely to prevent the decay of the contained body on principles well understood. Or, it preferred the coffin may be filled with any gas or fluid having the property of preventing petrification. So it's kind of like Tupperware for a corpse. Yep, that's exactly what it is. It's corpse Tupperware. There we go. It's corpse-erware. I could watch you drink from that weird glass all day. You gave it to me. In 1849, Fisk's foundry on Long Island in New York burned down. Along with all the company's machinery, tools, and inventory. Fisk borrowed 15,000 from two investors, John G. Forbes and Horace White. Horace White was the governor of New York. So all would be fine until Fisk's health declined the next year. He then transferred all of his patents and his business to Forbes and White. Fisk died on October 1850. Turns out from an illness he contracted while fighting the blaze. Oh, wow. Okay. Did you enjoy that, dollop? This, please. This isn't my first rodeo asshole. Other companies like Crane Breed and Cincinnati and W.N. Raymond and New York were granted licenses to produce cast iron coffins. These companies introduced modified versions that replaced the sarcophagus shape with a rectangular casket and simplified the design so it could be mass produced. The models were popular during the Civil War with wealthy families who wanted their loved ones killed in battle to be buried near the family home. Okay. Well, that's good. It's smart. I mean, the mummy's factor was probably not like making it a hot item. Throws you off a little bit. The mummy's part. You know, that's a guy who's like, I've got two ideas. Let's do both. He's like, well... The battle in Asheville, the Civil War was in its waning months. The North's superior industrial strength and never-ending supply of manpower had taken their toll on the Confederacy. Everything was going downhill for the rebels. The Union was now concentrating almost all of its force against the, quote, other rebel army, the Army of Tennessee. This army was the last hope for the South. It was led by General John H. Bell Hood, who at this time was physically beaten and an emotionally unstable man. I can imagine. Gotta have the weight of the world on your shoulders when you're like, come on, Slyvery! He had lost the use of one arm at Gettysburg and lost a leg at the Battle of Chickamauga. Hey, this man should not be involved in war anymore. Once you're down two limbs, you're out! He had to literally be strapped to his horse to travel. Oh my god! What? He's in charge! All right, everyone listen to the man who's hanging underneath his pony. Tie the general to the bottom of the horse! Excuse me. You help me, help me, don't embarrass me. Move, move, move! I would yell charge, but I have rolled over to the bottom of the horse. Could you push me back a top? And tie me down harder. Which is where the song Tie Me Down Harder came from. No, Johnson cannot tie the knots again. Sorry, sir. I didn't realize how limbless he was. Hood was a student of the old school method of fighting. Which you didn't need arms. I thought the only honorable way to attack was head on with banners flying. That wasn't the game the Civil War was playing. Those guys always did well in the Civil War. Hood was said to have associated Valor with casualty lists. In the Battle of Franklin on November 30th, 1864, in one day's fighting, he suffered 6,202 casualties. Holy shit! I didn't know there were 70 people. If no other battle did any army have so many generals killed and wounded. Jesus. Five Confederate generals were killed outright, six were wounded, one of which soon died, and one was captured. So he sounds like a terrible leader. Yeah. Alright, we're going to attack them where they can see us. Okay, generals out front! Hood was ready for more the next day, only to discover the Union forces had snuck away during the night for Nashville. Hood pursued. His troops were sick, worn down, and many were barefoot. Ugh. That's how you want to fight a war. No, that's not even how you want to be in Die Hard. No! Let alone a fucking actual war. Nashville was heavily fortified when Hood arrived, his troops were attacked. Many ran away, some held out, and fought the hope of battle. Small pockets of resistance fought for a couple of days. One of these was the 20th Tennessee under the command of Colonel William M. Shye. They were positioned on Compton's Hill. William Maybury Shye was born in Bourbon, Kentucky, Bourbon County, Kentucky on May 24th, 1838. He was one of ten children. His older brother, James Shye, organized the Perry Guards, which became Company G of the 20th Tennessee Infantry. I thought so. William or Bill, as he was popularly known. By his comrades. Enlisted as a private and company H of the 20th Tennessee on its Inceptions. In the spring after the Battle of Fishing Creek, he was elected a Lieutenant. He was known to be, have been a man of quiet disposition, a man of deeds rather than words. He was modest and gentle, always calm, and collected in battle. He quickly rose the ranks. From Captain in 1862 to Major in 1863, then Lieutenant Colonel while leading his men through the battles of Shiloh, Port Hudson, Murphsboro, Hoover Gap, Missionary Ridge, Atlanta, and finally Nashville, where he was Colonel of the 20th. Right. He's got a good res, good res going. Does he have a headshot? Ah, yep. Great. On Compton's Hill, he found himself surrounded by three sides by thousands of Union soldiers receiving fire from all angles. Around 4 p.m. it began to rain. The men did not slept in days. They retired cold, wet, hungry, but still they fought on. Suddenly the massive federal attack began. There were just a few minutes of violent fighting and then it was all over. They came so fast with so many that the small force atop the hill was completely overwhelmed. The entire command of defenders was annihilated. Only 65 individuals escaped. Colonel William M. Shy was killed. Compton Hill will later be renamed Shy Hill in his honor. The battle of Nashville was over. You sad? It's not, it's not an easy time for me. Well, hold on. When word of... Is something about to happen, David? He's going to come back to life. Shut up. He's kind of adrenaline. When word of Colonel Shy's death reached his family, it is unknown how it was received because his mother sympathized with the south and his father sympathized with the north. And this is like, this is like a Republican and a Democrat. I'm glad my son died. That'll teach him to be wrong. Yeah, the dad was like, that's right. Damn right we killed our son. You take that, mama. What I tell you, our boy's dad. Good, he was on the wrong side. I told you so. I told you so. Being unmarried, the chore of recovering his body fell to his parents. But it was almost impossible for a civilian to get permission to travel the roads because the pursuit of the fling Confederate army after the battle of Nashville, right? So they're fucking scurrying everywhere. Yeah. Shy family solicited the help of their close friend, Dr. Daniel B. Cliff, who held a very influential position in the community. Dr. Cliff made a raise in Sir's wife, Mrs. Virginia Cliff, to go to Nashville to recover Colonel Shy's body. But where is his body? I mean, his body is just... It's on that mountain. It's on that mountain. It's on Compton Hill. Yeah, they're like, he's dead. You want to pick him up? Yeah. Or, you know, we'll leave him there or whatever. Take out a delivery. What are you after? Do you want to come and get her or let her rock? You got two options. Also, you can't come. You got to send somebody else who's more important. You can't just go take a body. You can't just go running around. In this day and age. I love that he sends his wife. Yeah. Apparently she can... Well, she was the one who was grieving. He was too busy gloating. He was on the go though. Oh, no, this is the doctor sent his wife. Oh, the doctor sent his wife? Yeah, the doctor sent his wife. Okay. Now, no one knows why he sent his lady. Maybe it was because... He's a pussy. He thought that's what chivalry was. Sure, yeah. Ladies first. Go get it. Probably he was attending to wounded because of the war. From a newspaper report at the time. Virginia Whitfield Cliff took a spring wagon with a Negro man to drive and brought his body home. This privilege was accorded her by, because of Dr. Cliff's connection with the North. Mrs. Cliff found him without a stitch of clothing on, shot through the center of his forehead and impaled on a tree with a bayonet. Jesus. Oh, he got really killed. Yeah. He got like double killed. Yeah, they were like, be sure. Light them on fire too. Take out his eyes. Take his eyes and heart out. Colonel Shy was brought home and laid to rest in the family cemetery at Two Rivers near Franklin, Tennessee. Dr. Cliff was skilled in the art of embalming. Shy was buried in the family graveyard and the marker still stands, a white shaft in a cow lot. Excuse me? You heard me. A white shaft in a cow lot? You betcha. Sounds like a Scottish farmer. They were eight members of the Shy family buried in the graveyard in the 1800s and 1900s. Is there any appeal to that? To having you're burying everybody in the backyard? To just being like your dead body near people you knew and were related to? It's a little weird. I mean, to me, I'm like... I don't need anybody buried in the backyard. Yeah, I would just rather go to my own thing. Yeah, you know, there's a place you go to. Yeah, just be off in my own area. I don't need anyone I know around watching me decompose. Nope, it's all weird. The bayonet and can and the canteen of Colonel Shy are still in the possession of his family. The grave of Colonel Shy lay peacefully behind the beautiful antebellum home on the D'Elrio Pike for over a hundred years. On December 28, 1977, Ben and... Wait, that's amazing because that's quite a jump. Well, it did make a time jump. Okay. We did. December 24, 1977, Ben and Mary Griffith had recently purchased the antebellum estate. Hopefully. While Miss Griffith was showing the mansion and grounds to Fran and Christmas Eve, she noticed that one of the plots had been disturbed. Oh, no. The gravestones heading bore the following inscription, Lieutenant Colonel William Shy, 20th Tennessee Infantry, CSA, Born May 24, 1838, killed at the Battle of Nashville, December 16, 1864. The grievous immediately called the Sheriff's Department. Since the Sheriff's didn't consider this an emergency because he believed that would-be gray bravers dug up the plot to steal Civil War memorabilia, he waited until after Christmas to investigate. Come on, go ahead and take a hold on that. Some good police work right there, boy. You know what? They ain't going nowhere. No, they are going somewhere. Come on. Nobody does anything on Christmas. It's a holiday. Come on now. When the Sheriff returned on December 29, then inspected the grave, he discovered a headless, decomposed body dressed in a formal black jacket, white shirt, and white gloves. The investigators at the site agreed that this was the body of a recent homicide victim. Oh, Jesus. And it had an advanced state of decay. Their theory was that a murderer or murderers had attempted to hide the victim's body in plain sight by burying it in a used plot, but got scared off by Mrs. Griffith and her guest in the middle of disposing of the corpse. So it was a recently killed person that they decided to hide in the tomb, but then they ran away because... Right, they were burying a body. I like their plan. It's a good plan. From the fundamental aspect, I do think that is a... It's solid. It's a fair idea. Nobody's going to be looking in a grave for a body, honestly. It's a solid plan. Local authorities could not match the headless corpse with any of their missing person reports. While theories abounded, some have even speculated that the head might have been removed to hamper the identification of the body. Since the Sheriff's Department needed help identifying the body and estimating the time of death, they asked forensic anthropologist Dr. William M. Bass of the University of Tennessee at Knoxville to help with the recovery and analysis of the remains. It's from the local paper, the Franklin, December 21, 1977. That can't be right. Williamson County authorities investigating the tampering of a Civil War soldier's grave discovered that a second body had been placed in the grave probably within the last year. The body is an adult male clad in what appear to be a tuxedo. The body of Colonel Shye in its steel vault was understirbed, officials said. Nashville Banner, December 31, 1977. It looks like we have a homicide on our hands, said Chief Deputy Fleming Williams. Yeah, it's not a suicide. Dr. Bass arrived and a more thorough search turned up the head and other missing body parts. Oh my God. It was reported the body was found in a sitting position and then it had been dead for six months. As Bass excavated what was left of the body, he found a small hole in the top of the coffin, possibly caused by a pick or a shovel. When Bass looked inside the metal coffin, he found nothing but sludge, which didn't surprise him. He had exhumed a 19th century cemetery in Tennessee and found little more than small bone fragments. Sludge? So what he found was Colonel Shye. Yeah, but sludge? Yeah, but that's what happens to bodies. They turn into sludge? Sure. Have you ever seen CSI Las Vegas? Never seen CSI Las Vegas, but I was under the impression that we were just becoming bones, we weren't becoming a sludge. If you're like in a tightly, if you're like in a body bag or something. If you're in one of the fancy ones. Well, yeah, if you're in something that doesn't let air in or out, then you'll turn into like a juicy sort of... So who would want that? Do you want to be juice? Maybe, I don't know, juice is good. You want to be grave soup? I might want to be juice. Well, this is, I think we found a very key difference. This exam in the bones back in his laboratory, according to his osteological analysis, the remains belonged to a white male in his mid-20s to early 30s, was about 5'10". Due to the presence of pink tissue and decomposing tissue, Bass believed that this person had only been dead between 6 and 12 months. Sheriff's investigators discovered 17 fragments of skull during an additional inspection of the coffin. When Bass glued them back together, he found that the cause of death was a gunshot wound to the head with a large caliber gun at close range. The entrance wound was in the right, the forehead right above the left eye, and the exit wound was near the base of the skull. That during the battle of Nashville, shy was shot at point blank rage with a 58 caliber ball to the head. Dr. Bass began to suspect that he had made a huge error in the timeline of death. When the teeth were examined, he discovered that many of them had cavities, but there were no signs of modern dental care such as fillings. Then the clothes were examined and there were no synthetic fibers and labels, things that are typically seen in modern garments. Also, it was a ruffled shirt and a black tuxedo coat and white gloves. Like you know, in the 1800s. Bass determined that the body was 113 years old. So late. He realized- That's some bad calculating. I mean- What? It's off a little bit. 6 months to 113 years. I mean- Easily, you know. A tuxedo. Well, this is pretty open and shut. He realized the body belonged to William Cheyenne and had been pulled out through the small hole in the lid while looters were trying to rob the grave. Dr. Bass told the National Banner, I got the age, sex, race, height and weight right, but I was off on the time of death by 113 years. That's really being like really- Like that's really kind of putting a shine on a turd right there, right? I mean, you know, I got the sex right, I got the height was- How do you get the height wrong? I nailed everything! How do you get the height wrong? On a corpse? I nailed everything! Except the one thing that I'm actually good at. Except for the thing that maybe you can't just do based on vision. Dr. Bass reflected on how he could have miscalculated the time since death by more than 100 years. There was embalming fluid, arsenic, present in the flesh. Though embalming does not preserve human remains, a body will not stay uncrupted forever because embalming fluids only delay the inevitable process of decomposition. Okay. Fair. Colonel Scheiss Korps was protected from oxygen inside his hermetically sealed coffin. The Fisk coffin was also constructed to prevent bacteria, a necessary part of petrification, from flourishing. And the metal coffin protected the body from insects which can burrow through wood coffins and feast on human remains. Wait. It's the Fisk coffin. The coffin made him- In the embalming fluid and the Fisk coffin, he was just like a dude hanging out. He was just- He could have fucking opened it up and looked in that little window and he would have been like, hey, what's up? I think you just sold me on the Fisk coffin. What's up, girl? I do this for every- You're like, what's going on? The case in its errors made international headlines and- But didn't they know that he got the height right? Good lord. The case in its errors made international headlines and led to an innovation in forensic anthropology. Dr. Bass believed that his error was caused by a lack of understanding of what happens to the body during decomposition. So it was the Colonel Shy case that motivated Dr. Bass to start the anthropological research facility at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville, better known as the Body Farm. What is this? The Body Farm is a research facility where human decomposition can be studied in a variety of settings. The research facility opened up in 1980 to provide a setting for forensic anthropologists to document postmortem changes and to experiment with factors that affect time since death estimates. It consists of a 2.5- Hey, what kind of business are you guys opening up? We live on the plot next door. We're opening up a body farm. So we just go and throw bodies out here and see how quick they rot and stuff. Let me get my husband. What kind of place you got over there? We raised chickens. Dale! Dale! Come eat these zombie folks! Probably better if your chickens don't come over here. We ain't gonna have a fence, we're just gonna put up a line. I'm walking away to signify that this conversation is done. Okay, well if you die just go ahead and fall this way. I'm slowly turning my walk into a trot. Trotting away now. It consists of a 2.5-acre wooded plot surrounded by a razor wire fence. At any one time there are a number of bodies placed in different settings throughout the facility and left to decompose. What the fuck is this place? What? What the fuck? The bodies are exposed in a number of ways in order to provide insights into decomposition under varying conditions. Detailed observation and records of the decomposition process are kept including the sequence and speed of decomposition and the effects of insect activity. But who gives, honestly, who gives a fuck? It's the fucking people who try to determine how long a body's been. But who gives a fuck? Because you have to know when a person died if they got murdered. But you know, I mean, how is this a big enough problem that we need a body farm? I mean, I would say no. This is not the 1800s when people are getting robbed all the time. But a body farm is just fun. It's not fun. I think it's fun. Oh, god. My son has a body farm. Come on, kids, or go to the body farm. That's an ant farm. My son has an ant farm. The body farm received its first donation in 1981 and over 100 bodies are donated each year to the facility. I mean, that's fucking bananas. People are like, I want my body to rot outside. Oh, yeah. I want to be tossed. I want to be looked at while I just shred. Well, I slowly shred. I want to hang from a tree till I'm gone. Do whatever you want. And honestly, guys, I mean this. If any of you want to fuck me, just have at it. I don't even give a fuck. I'm here for you guys. Over a thousand bodies have been given to the body farm. Today there are six body farms in the United States. Oh, I'm glad to see they're franchising. There is the University of Tennessee, Texas State University, Sam Houston State University, Southern Illinois, Colorado Mesa, and the University of California University of Pennsylvania. California University of Pennsylvania. Boy, that's got to be confusing when you get in there. You're like, where the fuck am I heading? I'm going to California. No. This is the California University. No of Pennsylvania. What? The campus is in Iowa. Welcome to the California University of Pennsylvania campus in Iowa. Welcome to the clarification course. Earlier this year, the Fox Valley Technical College in Wisconsin announced they would open their own body farm. Good. Thanks, Wisconsin. Work will begin on a new body farm near Yaramundi on the outskirts of Sydney, Australia in 2015 on a patch of land owned by the University of Technology, Sydney. Will we be there? Oh, I hope so. We could do a fun sort of dollop body farm time. If you go to the body farm, half price. Half price body farm day. Half power, half price. That's going to be the first body farm outside the United States. Oh, well, I'm glad to see. Unless, of course, you're including Campuchia or any of the other places where people were slaughtered. Oh, yeah. Well, we're not. On Monday the 13th. On February in February, 1978, a cold rain was falling. The service was brief. There was no drum or a rifle salute. Six civilian dressed members of the sons of the Confederacy carried the great coffin to its resting place. Members of the DAC were also on hand with Confederate flags and one was placed on the grave. The Reverend Charles Fulton of St. Paul's Episcopal Church set a set a short eulogy over the shy coffin. Mrs. Montana praised Franklin's historical community for its warmth and sincerity. She remarked, I guess he could have been put back in the ground in a pine box, but the people of Franklin gave him a very warm ceremony. And Colonel William Shy was buried a second. That's all she had. Yeah, it's all she has. It really did not stop it. Well, they didn't set him on fire. We have a deal started here, but he hasn't. We validate. Anyway, that's how the body farm came to be. Jesus Christ. You are welcome. Yeah, good. No, disgusting. I mean, I just don't see much advantage to... If someone you knew got killed and they'd been out there for six months, they can figure out exactly when it happened and then start... But six months, we know what we're dealing with. We basically know what the decomposition rate probably is. We just don't need... What if someone is in some crazy coffin? What if we... Are those happening? I mean, the only thing now is you're getting buried. Like weirdos will be like, I want to be buried in a kiss coffin. That's what we're dealing with now is vanity coffins. Wait a minute, a kiss coffin? Yeah, there's a kiss coffin. Are you shocked by that? Yeah, kiss merchandise is everything. Are you shitting me? For 100 bucks, Gene Simmons will come and lick your doorknob. I mean, they don't give a fuck. Can we repair the kiss body farm? Oh, God. It's different. People are like, so we can kiss them? No. No. No. All right. Well, that was the... A kiss body farm I'd go to. I would go to that too. That I'd go to. If you were like after you die, you become a member of kiss, I'd be like, fuck, that sounds better. Thanks to Betsy Phillips for the suggestion. That was a good one. That's it. That's the end of this mullip. Well, we tried. Okay. We tried. Sure. I hope we got good news for you. Right. Fix this up. That's what the tinsel can guarantee.