 I Reynolds who has no real idea what this topic is about Not Gary Gara okay someone or something is tickling And this is not gonna come particularly quite good. Yeah You are Queen Fakie of made-up town all hail Queen shit of lies though a bunch of religious virgins go to Mingle and do what? Dave are you excited bro excited? Yeah May 14th is the next live virtual dollop We'll be doing another dollop with looped live. It'll be 6 p.m. Pacific time We are doing another live virtual dollop these shows are crazy. They have a lot of like Media in them videos and pictures David does a very great job and they've all been very fun So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the Event of the decade Arby's we've got the meats. No, no, no wrong copy Dave wrong copy. This is for the yeah Just stick to what we're doing so May 14th looped live 6 p.m. Pacific time join us again for another live virtual dollop We've got the meats Sometime in the 1860s in San Francisco Well first oh Let's just say it's San Francisco along with most other cities in the United States at the time had a problem with wild dogs Why I think that's a fair thing to say first in Los Angeles in the 1840s dogs outnumber people by nearly two to one I don't know what that was like. That's crazy to one dog to the one dog ratio And while the situation second our movie. Yeah, it's terrible. No, I don't think it was anything near that cute and fun Yeah, these are wild wild dogs Dogs eating people eating people. I think so I think so People could defend themselves against dogs The situation in San Francisco had not reached the extreme of two to one the large numbers of strays and feral dogs did cause problems Yeah, they're not pets. I mean some are pets, but most of these are fucking wild animals still I think with with the right weaponry I could defend myself against two dogs per me Dogs were regularly boys that I want to turn this into a dog war. All right. Look, we we believe I love animals Everybody listening believes that you could you could handle yourself against two dogs bring on these fucking dogs Dogs were regularly poisoned or trapped and killed Nevertheless if a dog turned out to be a good rat or distinguished itself in some other way It was still possible for it to survive. Just really took me right back to the the doll where we just have rat shows basically well, yeah bummer was a black and white newfoundland Who had established himself outside the saloon of Frederick Martin in 1860 and quickly proved to be an exceptional rat killer? His ratting talent spared him the fate of the previous dog who had lived on the territory Bruno who had been poisoned with strict eyes. Oh god Terrible you're not doing a good job Bruno. You're fired. What have this bowl of food? That means you're dead Described as quote bull in his fighting quarters and newfoundland in his vital parts. He wandered up. Excuse me. Yeah, I Think that they just said He was like it was like a bull in his fighting quarters and then in the other parts like his balls and his penis and balls And balls, I mean if that's what we consider vital parts, maybe also they mean heart, okay But probably penis and balls. It feels like they yeah feels dirty. You got to see this dog's dick. He This dog's got a beautiful penis Now it's like a what's her name and Elizabeth listen to your comedy special he wanted up and down the side of the east side of Montgomery Street the town's main stem begging food from restaurants and bars Which is what sounds like a dog which is what earned him the nickname bummer Okay, because he always wanted to bum But where are the other I mean where the other dogs just not hip to the idea that they should beg for shit I don't know if they knew because I think dogs in this day and age pretty much all they do is go Like can I can I have a have some kind of that? The young city was filled with stray dogs And bummer would probably have been destined for obscurity had an event not occurred that made him the talk of the town here we go on January 18th 16 1861 the Alta, California reported three or four days ago a poor lean Mangie Kerr was attacked in the street by a larger dog and was getting unmercifully walloped When bummers are being aroused at the unequal con contest He rushed in and gave the attacking canine such a rough handling that he was glad to quit the field I like it. I like this. Yep. The poor Kerr had one of its legs half bitten through and having limped upon the sidewalk He proceeded to scrape an acquaintance with his deliverer bummer who thenceforth Took him under his special protection Every night since then the two dogs have slept coiled up Together close to some doorway bummer always giving the lame Kerr the inside booth and trying to keep him as warm as possible That's nice. That's very nice. How's a couple of friends met? This is like the beginning of bushcast it in Sundance kid shirt. Hopefully their dogs. Yeah, okay This dog was badly injured and was not expected to live bummer coaxed him to eat brought back scraps from his scavenging missions and huddled next to him to keep him warm during the night The injured dog quickly recovered and within days was following bummer as he made his begging rounds in the streets His remarkable recovery earned him the name Lazarus. Whoa. Yeah Yeah, all right and he put her in last. Yeah, and he proved to be even more prodigious router than bummer The San Francisco bulletin of October 3rd 1863 reported the town rings today with stories of their prowess in this line claiming that they had killed 400 rats when a fruit market was overhauled Can you imagine like being a reporter? being like Wait, what's the story that I got to cover you're gonna talk about dogs killing rats today Johnny? Okay, cuz um They're they're turn up a fruit market. It's gonna be rats galore get down there with those dogs The people love this dog storyline. Tell us what they do And then to be a reader like oh Get your paper today 400 rats killed down at the fruit market. I'll take one of those My god, what a fascinating article. Holy dog They disposed of 85 rats in 20 minutes at another business. Whoa, that's a lot of rats 20 minutes. Yeah, also your business is terrible Not a restaurant the paper reassured That's what so three. What is that? That's like three a minute, right? Well or four four around It's like three yeah, it is like three and then it's four a little over four It's actually it's like four more than it's like three if you think about it So below we're bummer Lazarus that the board of supervisors Exempted them from a stray dog ordinance that allowed the board of supervisors. Yeah Really like heavy into the culture. These are superstars They exented it's just a pleasure to meet you may I shake your paw? That they exented them from a stray dog ordinance that allowed all unclaimed dogs to be executed It's a heavy word. Yeah, according to the Alta as the supervisors were deliberating the two dogs laid crouched at the doorway Apparently eager to hear what was being said and done for their benefit. I don't believe that. Yeah I mean, that's definitely a little a little a little liberty taken there I would guess someone brought the dogs down pretend you're listening While the noble hearted bummer was the subject of Unalloyed love and admiration Lazarus possessed a more Vasylating and selfish character neither dog was a beauty prize winner Lazarus who who some claimed was the oldest dog in town was described as a scrawny insignificant mutt of Yellowish black color a cross between a curl and a hound with a dash of the terrier that was not developed until he went into Partnership with bummer, but their friendship touched the hearts of everyone who saw them look at those two dogs together That's marvelous. You know, that's Lazarus the oldest dog in town We've done our homework The ratting talent and unique bond was seized upon by the city's press Martin here's where you'll start to understand what's happening. Martin Saloon was a favorite haunt of newspaper men and journalists So with the dogs of fixture outside the bar, they never had to they never had to travel far for a story So this is lazy reporting. It's just the shitty drunken reporters Who didn't want to go anywhere and they be like Subar's killing more. We're supposed to do a story today. Oh shit. Where's this dogs another story on the dogs? Yeah, these are rat killers and then their buddies. Yeah, but you've already wrote about that I think you have a drinking problem. It's super old The editors like Jesus another one about the two dogs and stuff fish These times you got to write the same article about these two dogs friend. This is one. They look through each other funny Yeah, I get it. They like each other. They're two dogs. One of them is really old. You like red. I don't like brass Well, yeah, I know they don't like what the fuck is your problem? Where's the money you owe me? I like their buddies. I know I like their buddies Done this before the exploits of the dogs were recorded in detail in the California California in the daily out to California the morning daily called the daily evening bulletin the editors vying each other and They're attempts to endow the pair's adventures with thrills and parallels to the human conditions good God The dogs even appeared in a stage burlata titled the life in San Francisco. What is like a mini? Like Italian opera. Well, but what how is that possible? Well, they probably just had him come out I don't think they actually spoke. I know I don't think the dogs sang but they probably you know You've heard the expression. It's not over till the hairy dog sings. Well, okay So they made they made a burlata about San Francisco and then they're gonna have the dogs in it so I won't put the Oh my god, that's Lazarus and bummer. Oh They really like each other and they hate rats. Wait a minute Lazarus is singing Bombers portrayed as the gentleman down on his luck yet still faithful and conscientious While Lazarus the mongrel was cast in the role of the sly and self-serving fair weathered friend when bummer was shot in the leg after only a couple of months and Lazarus left him to run with another dog. It suited the press no end Controversy well bummer Took Lazarus other wing and healed him and help Dave Dave And then when bummer got shot Dave also why is bummer kidding? I'm Dave what fair question right off the bat. Why is bummer getting shot? But also? What's happening with the reporters? Well now they're just giving these dogs like they're like the Kardashians Like who like Man just when I thought this plot couldn't thicken anymore Lazarus goes and leaves bummer. There's a lot of backstory with these dogs a lot of backstory bummer was said to be feeling the sting of ingratitude at the desertion of Lazarus Who'd be based on a human's eyeball? Not because he was shot he missed his friend Lazarus live from outside of the bar Lazarus's return when bummer recovered only added to the excitement Reunion episode back together. Oh my god, we're let it to the two dogs had the run of the streets and when on June 14th 1862 Lazarus was taken by a new dog catcher a mob of angry citizens demanded his release Petitioning to have the pair declared city property so they could wander the streets unmolested. Wow City supervisors released Lazarus and declared he and bummer exempt from the city ordinance Jesus a week later the two were reported to have stopped a runaway horse. Oh, yeah Sure, that's just a weird sentence to throw in there. Yeah. Yeah, they stopped a runaway horse Whatever bummer Lazarus back together again despite their reputations the two could be vicious bummer was a sheep killer and regularly fought other dogs in the street occasionally assisted by Lazarus Although normally Lazarus would restrict himself to barking encouragement. They also ran sack shops I'd be definitely be the Lazarus of the dogs. Yeah Chill they also ran sack shops when they had entered unnoticed and been locked in by the owners So they're dogs All the attempts to paint them as people they're actually dogs with like the odd couple. Yeah They're actually just dogs and who do you respond more to who do you think you are more of a Lazarus or a bummer? I think I'm more of a bummer and I'm more of a Lazarus. That's why we hang out. We're totally bummer Lazarus. I Can't believe bummer got got into a fight today and then got locked in a meat shop. It's crazy You know, I'm starting to think he might be a dog Bummer Lazarus were even left complimentary tickets for every theatrical performance that opened in San Francisco I gotta go I gotta go to 1880 it took from where to when in 1855 to 1880 in the first row of the balcony. Well, that seems like I might have misprinted something but that's a long time Yeah, what are these? They found the fountain of dog youth. I had to I had to make a mistake for 25 years. We left tickets for these dogs Well, they couldn't be because one's gonna die soon. It must have been 1860. Well, thanks for the foreshadowing Devin custom. Well, it was an accent. It was a custom. Let me guess one of them dies It was a custom that held until that tragic day when the beloved mongrel Lazarus died He was killed in October 1863 Accounts say he was poisoned by be given meat laced with rat bane after biting a boy The San Francisco's put up a $50 reward for the capture of the poisoner Wow, some wanted Lazarus to be buried in a place of honor alongside other great men of the city others wanted to be normal humans Others wanted priorities checked notable San Francisco's formed a procession and bummer looked on warmfully This led to a rumor that large numbers of San Francisco's turned out for Lazarus's funeral But the dog was not buried. He was actually stuffed by a taxidermist And we all know how good taxidermy was back then and yeah and displayed behind the bar in Martin Saloon It was reported that Martin paid the taxidermist $50 to turn the dog over Even though it remain its remains had already been claimed by the city council The daily evening bulletin council. Yeah, everyone was the innards We'll just have we'll just have this dead dog here on the table every time we have a meeting. Yeah, there we go You want to say it to me you say it to Lazarus and me just I'd rather um not say it at all Okay, then we are adjourned. Thank fucking God Lazarus does not like you sir. Yeah, well, he's a stuffed fucking dog. Excuse me. I'm out of here That's my wife the evening The daily evening bulletin featured a long obituary Entitled lament for Lazarus in which they praised the virtues of both dogs and recounted their various adventures together sure in the in 1950s Samuel Dixon's book San Francisco kaleidoscope offered a different version of the death of Lazarus. Oh in October of 1863 a fire ravaged in the city Though the streets came through the streets came rowing the brave men of the volunteer fire companies The st. Francis hook and ladder the Columbia 11 the knickerbocker 5 and the Washington hoes One of the trucks ran over and killed Lazarus. It was not known which truck it was although each company sorrowfully claimed credit bomber continued alone Although mark twain reported a year later in the daily morning call that he had taken a small black puppy under his wing new intern I Nothing more was heard of the puppy and without his companion Lazarus Bomber was less of an interest to the press Of course. Well, I mean look, you know, they were a duo the press knew that going into it It's hard to come down. You know, you have your show on the air and then your show You know next thing you know, there's a new bummer new Lazarus. Yeah, where's Maury Povich now? Thank you. Thank you It was said the grieving bomber rarely left the area where Lazarus died his final two years after the death of his friend were sad ones in 1865 a drunk Henry Rippy. I Swear to God for a minute. I thought that you were about to suggest that the dog had a drinking problem Well, you might have you said give me another one So I can always scotch. Oh, I'm here rock bottom I miss my little yellow and black friend black lab. I shit nothing against you About a time we stopped the runaway horse Yeah, yeah, you actually told about 15 minutes ago we kill we kill some sheep together. Okay, I I found him in the road. Do you have any money? Oh All right, okay, I took a move Do you want some water? What am I do And night in 1865 a drunk Henry Rippy kicked him down a staircase on Montgomery Street bummer died two months later That's a long time to be from kicked to died Oh, man bummer was still popular Enough that to avoid violence by a vigilance committee the city immediately arrested Rippy Wow, that is great though. I wish they did that now. Okay, so just a suggestion to sum up a Bunch of guys are gonna kill the drunk because he kicked the dog Listen that died two months later. Probably not from the kick because it was two months later I hate to say that I'm on the side of the vigilante fear, but I'm on the side of the vigilante fear I would I would I'm sorry. I'm really emotional right? Yeah, you sound you okay But Rippy did not completely escape Street Justice as upon learning of his crime Rippy's cellmate a vendor named David Popley Oh boy pop Rippy in the smeller quote Popped Rippy in the smeller. Well, I'm not gonna I'm a little I Might need some clarity Cuz um Smellers a nose or a foot. Okay Because I just want you to know that could go to a darker place Bummer's passing did not make the headlines in the same way that Lazarus death had But cartoonist jump created a new cartoon showing him lying in a state while Lazarus tucked into a table of food In the ether above him and all the morons rejoiced with closure and rats paid their respects Oh god, it's rats the things that they've killed. Yeah, but you know how they are fucking Slot like it would be like that's like the Jews sitting around paying their respects to Hitler, but to be fair This is a cartoon True. Yeah These goddamn Jews A young reporter named Mark Twain produced a snide eulogy for bummer in the Virginia City Enterprise Which was repainted in the Californian on the 11th of November 19 1865 The old vagrant bummer is really dead at last although he was always more respected than his Ubiquitous vessel the dog Lazarus his exit has not made half as much stir in the newspaper world as Signalized the departure of the latter. I think it is because he died a natural death Died with friends around him to soothe his pillow and wipe the death damps from his brow and receive his last words of love and resignation Because he died full of years and honor and disease and fleas He was permitted to die a natural death as of a as I have said but poor Lazarus died with his boots on which is to say He lost his he lost his life by violence. He gave up the ghost mysteriously mysteriously at Dead of night with none to cheer his last moments or to soothe his dying pains So the murdered dog was canonized in the newspapers his shortcomings excused and his virtues heralded to the world But his superior parting with his life in the fullness of time and in the due course of nature Syncs as quietly as might the man she is cur among us. Well Let him go in the earlier days. He was courted in crest But laterally he has lost his comeliness his dignity had given place to a want of self-respect Which allowed him to practice mean deceptions to regain a moment That sympathy and notice which had become necessary to his very existence And it was evident to all that the dog had had his day his great popularity was gone forever In fact a bummer should have died sooner There was a time when his death would have last left a lasting legacy of fame to his name now However, he will be forgotten in the in a few days Bummer skin is to be stuffed in place with that of Lazarus. I agree with that Finish so Mark Twain just basically said you're a bunch of fucking idiot. Yeah, but in a great in a great eloquent Yeah, well, he was a good writer turns out. What else did he do after the Bummer eulogy buddy. Did he work? This was the same year. He wrote the fuck the frog I can't remember the name of the place Calaveras bullfrog competition No, I was just that was the thing that that was like his yeah, that was our worst, right? So he was just kind of in the bullpen warming up with this material Yeah, he was he was about to write that he was about to just blow out and become huge. I'm glad yeah Imagine if this was that that would be this is like this is like dual. Yeah like the movie dual. Yeah Yeah Bomber was also mounted by the taxidermists and placed on display good in 1906 both specimens were donated to the Golden Gate Park Museum Now the 8m hd young Memorial Museum where they remained in storage until they were destroyed in 1910 I know right all why the fuck would you who just for history's sake of them out Yeah, give them out give them out March 28th 1992 a brass plaque commemorating the two dogs was placed at transamerica redwood park a small park adjacent To the base of the transamerica pyramid, which I was gonna go to but I was too tired because I was I was saying it a block away Oh, really? Oh, I wrote this Jesus That'd have been great. I wanted to take a picture of it. It's a little field reporting. I was so fucking tired Well, we get it you work a lot Dave Bomber and Lazarus. It's a shame. It is a shame. It's a shame. They're gone There's a great dog story, but all dogs die and they go to heaven some die violently and they all go to heaven, right? Yeah, I'm not gonna heaven. I knew it. I Like that. That was fun. That was the fun one. That's fun. Last one was a little tough the Chinese Wars Oh, it feels nice. Yeah, oh only you can imagine those dogs and a tong, you know a bummer tong A bummer tong. A Lazarus tong. All right, this is over