 I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gara. Stay okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to Tickly Quad, Kelly. Oh, yeah. You are queen fakie of Hade uptown. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Oh, hi, Kelly. No. I see Dad, my friend. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No, no, no, no. No. Just go away, brother dekka. Buh-bye. No. No. No. No. That's flying. And they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade Arby's we've got the meats. No, no, no wrong copy Dave wrong copy. This is for the yeah Just stick to what we're doing so May 14th looped live 6 p.m. Pacific time join us again for another live virtual dollop We've got the meats Charles Crocker was born into a modest upstate New York family in 1822. Okay Crocker was forced to quit school at 14 to help support his family. That's a good time after his family moved to Indiana He did various jobs farming working in a sawmill and serving as an apprentice in a local blacksmith shop Apprenticing was huge. Yeah, it's a big thing. I think yeah, do you're so you no one just got a job You got a job to become that guy. It's the intern. Yeah, but it wasn't like it's not like an in I mean It guess it's an intern kind of But it's more like you want the job because you're gonna do it forever, right? There was no like I'm passing through I'm gonna go to college after this. It's like, it's what you're doing forever All right, like metal you bang this metal when it's red. Why you put it in this water. Oh, you're learning Welcome to the next 40 years of your short life. Kill yourself When news of the of the fortunes to be made in California spread across the nation Crocker with his brothers Clark and Henry Let a party of 49ers overland to the Pacific Coast arriving in 1850 Two years in the mines convinced him that mining was no way to make a fortune. And so he opened a store in Sacramento By 1854 He was one of the wealthiest men in town and had a strong business relationship with Mark Hopkins Callous Huntington and Leland Stanford who together with Crocker became known as the big four for their prominence in California's stunningly rapid economic development. Okay, big four. Did you want to do something about that? Yeah, it's totally up to you Yeah, sometimes on the dollop we close a window because there's some kid Yelling like him like an animal That's why we all that's why we all need to be sterilized Political positions and further business opportunities accompanied Crocker's initial economic gains in 1855 He was elected to Sacramento City Council and in 1860 to California State Legislature in the early 1860s The big four began to plan and manage the construction of the Central Pacific Railroad Which was to cross the rugged Sierra Nevada mountains and meet with the Union Pacific headed west from Nebraska. Okay The six foot tall 300 pound Crocker managed the actual he's fat. Yeah, that's a that's a large That's not muscle. That's that's a heavy gentleman. Right. That's a guy who is really really has a lot of money and gets to eat Whatever he wants. That's a man is destined for gout. Welcome to San Francisco and it's pudding Yeah, I'll have more pudding, please the six foot tall 300 pound Crocker managed the actual construction of the railroad Crocker became the contractor in charge of construction hiring men and equipment Setting up campsites and acting as a paymaster and accountant He acquired the land on which to lay the tracks by simply buying the right of way at the appraised value with or without the consent of the owner That's an interesting tactic No, it's mine, but yeah, here's some money fuck off, but I don't want to sell it I said fuck off. I said it's mine. Good day, sir No obstacle is going to get in the way of Crocker or the progress of capitalism He overcame shortages of manpower and money by hiring low-wage Chinese immigrants to do much of the backbreaking and dangerous labor This was known as the Kooli system Why because it was so coolie to be white. That's right He drove the workers to the point of exhaustion in the process setting records for laying track and finishing the project Seven years ahead of the government's dead Jesus. He was he was working them to death Oh God the line that he started building on February 22 1863 met the Union Pacific line running from the east in Utah on May the 10th 1869 With this success Crocker's business activities reached a new level. He became president of the Southern Pacific Railroad Help connect San Francisco to Portland by rail became involved in banking and Northern California industry and even made money as a real estate speculator He was an early proponent of the massive irrigation projects was eventually transformed, California into a fruit and vegetable vegetable growing center So he's a big deal. Yeah, thank you Chinese people. I grew up with Crocker Bank was right down the street Crocker Bank. Yeah Nicholas Young was a native of Germany who had arrived in the US in 1848 He established himself in the mortuary business and in 1855 he and his wife Bought a corner lot at the top of California Street Hill and built a modest home in those days the treacherous climb Made Young's hilltop home seem almost isolated and removed from the hustle and bustle of Gold Rush San Francisco The location offered young and his family a stunning view to the north They could look out the Golden Gate at the Golden Gate to the east there's the bay and Berkeley Hills and to the south They could watch the sprawling teaming city below all around the house was a great flood of fresh air and sunlight Okay, sounds nice, right lovely. I have a feeling something's gonna change Because that just you said nice fresh air sunlight is on the top of a hill from every side of the house He sees beautiful views you can see the water you can see the mountains. I don't know what we're gonna be going to be good. What's gonna happen on there? In April 1878 the California Street Line cable cars commenced operations The new found accessibility turned the once remote California Street Hill into San Francisco's most exclusive real estate area This is where I come to get away from it. God damn it Yeah, Leland Stanford and Mark Hopkins two members of the big four both built palatial mansions on what had become almost overnight knob hill Charles Crocker never wanted to be outdone planned to build his house even higher up the hill than his rivals He planned a grand spectacle of his wealth and power including a 75-foot tower from which he could view the goings-on of San Francisco It had become fashionable Yeah, he's a fucking horrible man It had become fashionable for these tycoons to buy an entire block of houses and then to level Them upon which then would be built new mansions as architectural monuments of their wealth Many of the former honoured owners sold for tidy profits with the last of the holdouts typically doing even better For example when Henry flood was acquired acquiring his block He ended up paying twenty five thousand for the final property. So the guy who holds out the longest fucking payoff Yeah, it's like an orgy. Yeah, he they need to they need that house gone. Yeah, it's fucking supply and demand baby Don't call me baby. No, I'm talking about system. Okay. Let's go back to baby. Okay, baby So Charles Crocker eager to match his rivals began brying properties on his desired block and even before he had finished purchasing all the properties Construction crews went to work building his palace. So he hasn't bought all the properties yet But he's still like it'll happen as they make the way across the lot. He's fucking building Well, I always say that's the best way to build your palace half a house Yeah, just start just start and then the rest the dominoes will all happen once someone sees the building they go also It looks like he's gonna build the palace on my house one after another sold the Crocker all but one You see Crocker unlike his wealthy associates was unwilling to play to pay inflationary prices So when it came time to purchase the final property on the desired block owner Nicholas young Crocker only offered him six thousand for the home Young believing his home was worth more refused to sell and set his price at twelve thousand Charles Crocker was a man who was used to getting what he wanted The way he wanted it he became indignant towards young for setting his own asking price and made all manner of threats against the man But young remained steadfast and refused to sell for less Crocker made several offers to buy young out at the market price, but young refused As progress on the mansion continued Crocker became more and more desperate to have young in his house removed Finally the downside to his stupid policy When dynamite was used to level the craggy hilltop for his home Crocker apparently ordered his workmen to aim the flying debris towards young's house Jesus, but the under taker held his ground Crocker then ordered all the property on his block to be graded lower Leaving young's home floating on a rectangular dirt pedestal Young refused to sell for less than his asking price Young refused to sell for less than his asking price With the mansion just about completed Crocker made one final attempt to buy young's property Doubling his original offer young however because of the beautiful view the wishes of his family or his own sense of defiance and pride refused Crocker yet again Crocker then threatened to build a fence around young's property, but young wouldn't compromise so in 1876 Crocker made good on his threat and at a cost of three thousand dollars Built a 40-foot high walled fence 40 foot around the three sides of the young property that Crocker owned Effectively cutting off nearly all sunlight and airflow to the residents. Wow The fence was so high giant braces were erected to keep the fence from blowing over The young's had to light candles in the daytime Jesus Christ and all their plants died Wow and the house acquired a damp and gloomy feel. Oh, man, that's that's a fairly good tactic With only he's a huge asshole. He's a huge asshole with only northern exposure left to them The young's felt as if they were living at the bottom of a well still Nicholas young refused to lower his price. Love it Crocker's spite fence as it was now known spite fence Became one of the city's most popular sightseeing attractions Oh good good more good news for young people would ride the cable car to the top of nob Hill to stare at and talk about this symbol of capitalist power over the little man Californians love to be shocked into loathing Crocker and all that he represented the newspapers Echoing the ire of most San Francisco's began calling the fence Crocker's crime in the late 1870s It was a time of nationwide economic depression and high unemployment in San Francisco rage was directed not only at the railroad Barons But also against low-wage Chinese laborers who many felt were threatening the job of white Americans Dennis Kearney capitalizing on this rage formed the workman's party of California the WPC The party slogan was the Chinese must go Oh It was subtle What were they after? The Chinese or the no no no that party Just one of the Chinese to go. I'm unclear the slogan doesn't really tell me what they want the Chinese to go I wish that was represented in like a bottom line statement You know what I mean like something that just really cut to the thesis. Yeah, I get your point Because of the just a little vague. I get you I hear you I completely agree Because the economic conditions and the resentment that they created the WPC managed to sweep city elections in 1878 in 1879 the spite fence was a symbol that fired up the WPC members and Motivated others to join although racism is one of the platforms of the WPC Many members join more for the labor issues than for the politics of hate Easy to do. I think Chinese must feel so fine. That's so fucked up. Yeah Oh, yeah, you built the you built the railroad now get the fuck out of here. Yeah, right In October 28th 1878 the WPC hailed a mass rally on the top of Nob Hill The setting was perfect for inciting the rage of the laborers Lime barrels were set on fire and cast their light upon the display of the Crocker Crocker's capitalist wealth hundreds of armed men line the halls of Crocker mansion Ready to defend him and his million dollar art collection if violence broke out over 2000 WPC members stood in the cold night air to hear Kearney in his incendiary Style rally them against the supposed enemies Quote when the Chinese question is settled he roared we can discuss whether it would be better to hang shoot or cut the Capitalists to pieces. He told the roaring crowd that if Cocker didn't remove the spite fence by Thanksgiving Day Kearney and the WPC would tear it down themselves Everyone there was a working man party and yeah, that was fun The battle lines were drawn. Unfortunately that particular battle never took place But two days after the Nob Hill rally Kearney was arrested for attempting to incite a riot Although he was released before Thanksgiving the WPC didn't climb up the hill that day and Kearney Seemingly more anti-Chinese than anti-capitalist never made good on his promise to tear down the fence It's too many Chinese to deal with. Yeah. Well, you could hire the Chinese to tear down the fence. No a hire Yeah, and that's how things stayed two years after the fence was built a photographer named Edward Moibridge inadvertently captured Crocker's spite fence on film He took a shot of the city with Nob Hill on the right and I'll put this up You can see the spite fence between Crocker and Huntington Mansions The young's tried to get the city to provide justice But Crocker was too wealthy and influential and kept the legal system from saving him young became so frustrated that he eventually Mounted a coffin brought home from work on his roof Facing the Crocker residents as one last measure to upset the Crocker's but there's a fence there so they can't see it anyway Yeah It's all he had that's not it's a nice try. Yeah, I don't think it's oh Yeah, well, we'll see who likes it when you have to look at this coffin or I look at it Well, the point is it's I will be looking at it more than you but I will say this you built a really fucking high It's a good. It's a great house. It's very high. I can't see the house, but it looks great. Thank you Eventually the young couldn't take living in their home and had their house moved to another lot on Broadark Street After the young family move Crocker had the fence reduced to 25 feet. What a sweetie, but kept the smaller Smaller fence still in place to devalue the lot that the young still owned He's just he's just why did he lowering son of a bitch? Why did he lower? I don't know Maybe so he so he could see out of the top of his bed, which is crazy As the year went by both Nicholas Young and Charles Crocker died But the fence remained when Crocker died his fortune was estimated at 40 million dollars When Rosina Young died in 1902 the lot was valued at 80 thousand dollars Wow Finally in 1904 the descend the sentence of the young sold the property to the descendants of the Crockers and the fence came down Then thankfully two years later the fire following the famous 1906 San Francisco earthquake Consumed Crocker mansion It was not rebuilt today. Grace Cathedral occupies the same block So Crocker so the last laugh is Young Yeah, I guess so I mean the family made $80,000 and then the house burned down I like to think the San Francisco earthquake was all about karma for just that house. Yeah, I know a lot of people had to die because of it Listen karma listen karma's like a car. This is a speeding bullet man. It'll hit some people. Yeah, it's gonna take out some other Speeding log. I mean, it's gonna wipe some shit out along with the guy. It's gonna be strapped. No car. No car It's not great. Listen. There's good breaks makes to make this omelet. That's all there is