 Not Gary Gera. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come with tickling, Quad. Oh, yeah. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No, I miss you dad, my friend. No, no! Dave, are you excited for the show? Yes, Gary. Are you excited, bro? Yes! Are you excited? What? Yeah! Yeah! May 14th is the next live virtual dollop. We will be doing another dollop with Looped Live. It will be 6 p.m. Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual dollop. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of like media in them, videos and pictures. David does a very great job. And they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade. Arby's, we've got the meets. No, no, no. Wrong copy, Dave. Wrong copy. This is for the, yeah, just stick to what we're doing. So May 14th, Looped Live, 6 p.m. Pacific time. Join us again for another live virtual dollop. We've got the meets. Hanford was a tiny farm town along the Columbia River in eastern Washington state. It was settled in the 1860s. Before that, the area was popular meeting place for Native Americans. Archeologists have found artifacts showing natives lived in the area for over 10,000 years. I guess that's why they're native. Yeah. That's a good point. I like the way you think. Thank you. Hanford streets and building locks were planned out in 1907 on land purchased in 1905 by Priests Rapid Irrigation and Power Company. In May 1913, the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul railroad was completed to Hanford. This was a transcontinental link to the area allowing farmers to ship large quantities of produce. This combined with increasing produce prices resulted in a major boom in the first two decades of the 20th century. Okay. Shit was on in Hanford. Yeah, I'm sure things will continue to be great. Why wouldn't they? Wow. The U.S. Army began eyeing Hanford in 1943. That's not good. The area fit the needs of the Army's top secret project, the Manhattan Project. Oh boy. The Manhattan Project was, of course, a research and development project that produced the first atomic bombs during World War II. A place to produce plutonium was needed. Oh boy. Hanford was it. Oh God. It was extremely remote, not a town larger than a thousand people within 20 miles, and the Columbia River was a perfect source of water for cooling nuclear reactors. So, using eminent domain, the federal government acquired the land about 586 square miles and told 1,500 area residents, along with an unrecorded amount of Native Americans from four different tribes, that they had 30 days to leave. Jesus. Can you imagine? To build bombs. You're just living in your little house. All right, guys. 30 days. Gotta be out. Hey, listen, that's a wrap for you guys. So, back up your TPs. Go ahead and get the fuck out. Ship her out. It's in the name of nuclear bombs, so you know it's a good cause. Oh boohoo, I'm sorry. Did you live here? God, listen, Native Americans, at this point, we thought you'd get used to being fucked so much. You're really bitching. Right? This is like almost hacky what we're doing. Good lord. I mean, yeah, this is a copy of a copy, really. The new facility would consist of 554 buildings built by August 1945. The reactors it housed would first produce plutonium that would be used in the Trinity nuclear test at Los Alamos, New Mexico, which cost the US government over a billion dollars to make. There was worry that the extremely expensive plutonium would be wasted if the bomb didn't go off in the test. What a fear. Major General Leslie Groves, who was in charge of the Manhattan Project, even had a kind of oversized catcher's mitt built out of concrete to catch the plutonium. I can't even imagine what you're talking about. Like, what is that even? It's just a big concrete catcher's mitt. So he just, yeah, okay. And then if the plutonium goes in there, he goes, he's out. Yeah, it's okay. He's out of there. But the explosion went off as hoped. Oh, thank God. Great, great story. Great ending to the story. Hanford also made the plutonium that was inside Fat Man, the atomic bomb that was dropped on Nagasaki on August 1945. It estimated 35,000 to 40,000 people were killed, 60,000 were injured, and about 44% of the city was destroyed. That's a good people. That's cool. That's cool. Hey, listen, we called it Fat Man. You know how we always tell everyone they can't have a nuclear weapon? Were the only people that have actually used one? They can't, Dave. Okay, cool. Groovy. I'm worried about Iran having that. Oh, yeah, because they attack so many other countries. Hey, listen. Yeah. You know how many countries Iran has actually offensively attacked in its history? Oh, God, the list goes on and on. I was listening to Benny Netanyahu the other day. It's zero. The number is zero. Yeah, I mean, there's number zero, but still it feels like 30. Yeah, okay. The target at Nagasaki was actually inside of a valley, and it was less successful than the little boy, the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. The cuter of the bombs I'm on. Yeah, little boy. Little boy killed between 70,000, 80,000 people, a third of the city's population, Wow. and another 70,000 and destroyed almost 70% of the city. Perfect. So that was cool. That's a good boy. Yep. It's a good boy. It's just fun. The responsibility of manufacturing nuclear weapons came under civilian control. General Electric was awarded the first contract. The federal government- It would be great if that was a guy in the army. I'm General Electric. And you always have- Stand down. Did you ever see the electric cowboy that Robert read for a movie? No. Well, there is, he like comes out riding and he's got lights all over his outfit. Uh-huh. But that would be cool if that's the General Electric one. Yeah. Is it General that just had like lights all over him? Yeah. And he was riding a horse with Christmas lights on it. The federal government ordered the production of plutonium to be ramped up at the Hanford site. Hey, thank God for that. In 1947, two more nuclear reactors were installed and by 1963, there were a total of nine working. I don't like where we're headed. Why? It's not good. What could go wrong? Maybe this is just a great story about how things worked out. And I think, well, okay. I think, yeah, okay. Okay. Yeah. In 43 years, Hanford site produced 65% of the plutonium installed in the United States, 60,000 weapon arsenal. All the while, reactors were running, the facility was creating an overwhelming amount of radioactive waste. Cool. Including- It's easy to get rid of. That's one thing we've noticed. Including tantsuranic waste, which is highly radioactive. The process of creating plutonium is extremely inefficient and a lot of waste, both solid and liquid, results from it. The solid waste that was produced came in the form of used and broken equipment, as well as contaminated materials such as workers, clothing and tools. Nice. The production of plutonium not only used thousands of gallons of water and fuel that needed to be disposed of properly. It also produced a toxic sludge that was highly radioactive and dangerous. The waste contaminated materials that were radio toxic, the waste contained materials that were radio toxic, meaning that they can be biologically harmful because they are so radioactive. Shocking. Some of this waste has been recorded as giving off more than 10,000 REMs per hour, which would be lethal to anyone standing three feet away from the material. Oh, Jesus. If only for a few minutes. Oh, God. Exposure to the lower level radioactive material can lead to diseases like cancer and genetic damage and stuff like that. Oh, so that's more long, long east. Oh, that's nice. At first workers disposed of the liquid waste, the water and the sludge by pouring it on the grounds. This practice stopped after a few months when they realized that it was contaminating, that it was contaminating the groundwater and soil. Hey, hey Bob. Yeah? You know how we're just pouring this radioactive waste into the ground? Yeah, yeah, it's perfect. I think it's getting radioactive waste into the ground. Now that you mention it, I have been pissing neon. So I think if we just keep pouring radioactive waste onto the ground, then the ground will become radioactive. Oh, I see what you're saying. Yeah, where I'm going? Yeah, then things will be good. Okay. Let's get this waste pouring. The practice was stopped, but they only stopped dumping the highly radioactive materials. Water used to cool the reactors and other types of low level radioactive waste would still be tossed on the ground until... Baby steps. Until? Oh boy. 1997. Oh Christ. Jesus Christ. Ah, fuck. Fuck. I'm going to say until 1997. Ugh. Hey, hey Gareth. Yeah? Did I mention until 1997? Yeah. I did. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's coming across pretty clearly. Okay. Because before 1997, how could anybody know? Well, I mean, look, we didn't have access to facts. No, there was no research on nuclear anything. No, you didn't think... No, we didn't think it was bad to have nuclear anything. No, there was no indication of that at all. No. It's just like bath water. You pour it out on the ground. Well, look, we weren't there when we dropped the bombs on Nagasite. We didn't see the actual impact. Thank you. I also never saw Silkwood and I didn't go through the through my violin movie, The China. So, you know, it takes a while. China syndrome, I didn't see any of that. It takes a while. I used to think it was good for you like cigarettes. I can't read books. No, no, no. I'm going to be reading books and learning about what I'm doing. No. That doesn't have to work. It's the 90s, man. Now, as far as the sludge went, instead of just dumping the sludge on the ground, they began burying it. The most radioactive waste that was produced was pumped into large underground tanks. Smaller batches of the dreaded tanzeric, tanzeric, anac waste were collected in cardboard boxes placed onto trucks that were protected by iron pans called gunk catchers. Oh, so they're like clinical. And? Fucking gunk catchers. Is a two-year-old naming it? Gunk catching. Oh, that's a good one, Bill. And they were buried in trenches near the site. Smart. What could go wrong? That practice would go on until the early 1950s. Around this time, multiple fires occurred at the facility, mostly at the burial sites. We can assume that not only did these places occur because of the waste itself, which can then self-combust, they're also quite large. Now this is an assumption we make because there are documents in existence that note these incidents and have been made public. Many records documenting the shipment of waste to the burial grounds are still classified or have been destroyed, including all documents for a burial ground that held the most dangerous hazardous waste. Cool. No reason for it to be classified. No. And tell you here what they're. Well, yeah, I mean, I think you know, I think I know why they classify that shit. Well, we'll see. Yeah. Mr. Big Baby, I don't like America. Excuse me, I don't. Well, if you don't like this story, you hate America. Well, then guess what? In 1953, research started at all labs at Hanford that involved high-level radiochemical operations, which resulted in the most hazardous waste ever to be produced on the site. Radioactive monitors were so concerned by how radioactive the waste was that they recommended a new disposal system instead of cardboard boxes and gunk catchers. Well, what was wrong with that plan? Hey, hey, I got an idea. Why don't we do this like we're not four-year-olds? What? Yeah, I think we should do, you know, we, you know, every day you're like, hey, when you go to the grocery store, get some boxes. Yeah. I think we shouldn't dispose of the radioactive waste that way. I agree. That's why we got the gunk catchers. Yeah, but those are just like silver pans called gunk catchers. Yeah, it's catchy. It works. Okay, we're going to try something different. All right. You want to hear the new plan? Yeah. Okay, the waste from the research will be collected in five to six gallon aluminum milk bales. And then we're going to, we're going to, we're going to seal these bales up and place them in underground containers and going to cover those with sand and concrete. Oh, well, as long as sand is covering them, whew, you have me worried for a second that we were going to do something competent. No, it's, yeah, we're going to just do it with something different, stupid. Okay, cool. Monitors noticed that the areas where the pales were buried were getting hotter. So workers began putting the pales inside aluminum casks with lead interiors that were then dropped on bottomless concrete tubes installed in the burial grounds. Bottomless concrete tubes. I mean, I don't think they're bottomless, but they're pretty deep. They're not bottomless, but they're fucking far. I do like how we really don't give a fuck about inside of the earth. Never really have. No, we don't care about the earth. Like we don't mind like ejecting whatever the fuck it is into earth or just dropping barrels of nuclear waste, that bottomless pits, which have bottoms. Whatever, there's a hole, put something in it. Hey, listen, listen, you sound like Humstock. You know what I'm talking about. Yeah, dude. Wait. You know what I'm talking about? Fucking? I don't know. The majority of the waste that was produced at Hanford and estimated 525 million gallons. Oh, boy. Fuck. Was high level tank waste, which had to be pumped into large underground steel containers. There are currently a total of 177 tanks, and 149 of them are single shell carbon steel tanks built from 1943 to 1964. What the fuck? What? That's terrible. These were built with life expectations of 20 years. Oh my God. What are you? The one thing you don't want to hear on that is life expectation. I love that. You want to hear immortal? I love it's something that has a half life of millions of years or whatever it is. And they put it in things to have a life of 20 years. Like what were they thinking? People were going to dig it up and then. They must have been like 75 when they did it. They're like, well, I won't be working here. It won't matter. 20 years. I'll be in the ground like this nuclear waste. I retire in 18 years. Alrighty. This will be fine. This will be fine. The first tank leak was confirmed in 1959, which is well below the 20 years. Yeah. Besides solid and liquid waste, the reprocessing plants also routinely released radioactive isotopes from their gigantic stacks, which were blown down wind in nearby populations. In some instances, extremely large quantities of radio nuclides were released into the air intentionally while the Air Force attempted a two day green run in 1949. A green run. Oh, a green run. Green runs are when batches of uranium are processed before they have cooled for 83 to 100 days. They're still quote green at that point. And the one time it was tried at Hanford with materials that had only cooled for 16 days between 5,000 and 12,000 curies of radio nuclides were released into the air. Well, it's the rush. Actually iodine 131, which causes thyroid disease and cancer. Oh, good. But what's the rut? Why do they have to? Well, you ever heard the phrase get her done? Yeah. Yeah. That phrase has been great to America. Done wonders for comedy. I think that's what we're talking about. Oh, yeah. This definitely sounds like a comedy. I don't know the reason why they would have. I mean, maybe maybe they just had to create a bunch really fast. But still, it's like, how can you be so cavalier with like with with nuclear like with glowing shit? You're not fun. No, I'm not fun. Have you? I've reached the movie modern problems with Chevy Chase. He gets covered by some radioactive waste. Oh, with Goldie Hawn. Yeah. Yeah. He drives behind a truck and like nuclear waste spills on him and then he becomes. Yeah. He just what does he become? He can like make funny stuff happen. I don't know if funny happened, but he can make stuff happen with his mind like he gives her orgasms by just standing there. Oh, okay. Oh, move stuff around. Oh, I didn't realize that the upside to this was that an SNL alum could move shit with his eyes. I think that happens. Well, let's see what happens at the end of the story. I'm excited. But I'm betting that's where this goes. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Jeff, I'm just a little bit out of energy study as many as 2 million people were exposed to radiation through the release of these isotopes and the fallout. Two million people. Did I mentioned two million people? Yeah. And the fallout reached as far as Montana and even Canada. Sorry, Canada. All right. You are. Hey, listen, you knew the deal when you move next door, Canada. We like to fucking rage. You know what? You don't wanna move. You don't wanna party. Don't move next to to party house. All right guys. You fucking. next to a frat house. That's right, bitch. And we fucking keep shit on all the time. Sorry, bro. Sorry about the radioactive material, bro. Oh, and the Atomic Energy Act of 1854 freed private companies work on nuclear weaponry from independent oversight. Okay, I just want to as we go over that for a minute. Sure. So in 1954, they were contracting out all this work instead of the government doing it themselves. And then they just said that there's gonna be no independent oversight. So you guys do whatever you want. But that's the best way to do it. I think like when police police themselves, that always is the safest way to handle shit. Whatever you want. Yep. What can go wrong? Listen, just nuclear material. We're trusting you to trust you. You know what? You guys know how bad this shit is. You're not gonna do anything wrong. You guys get it. You're not gonna cut corners. No, right? It's nuclear material. No, not even for just like a minimal profit game in the short term. What stupid asshole would cut corners? In go. Maybe the stupid asshole who thought that a 20 year shelf life or something that lasts for fucking ever would be fine inside of it should be noted that direct exposure isn't needed for isotopes to affect humans as they can enter the food chain through grazing animals like you for a second. I thought we were gonna be left out cows and sheep. Don't eat me which eat contaminated grass. So what's cool is that then then that's not just the people who are in that area was also all the people who ate the meat. It's the circle. The circle of life. The isotopes also contaminated fish in the Columbia River, which thereby exposed multiple Native American communities in the area that live on fish heavy diets. How do you think there's any way for Native Americans to thank us? Like, it feels like we keep stepping up for them. And we've never really gotten an official like we appreciate it or just like a little no or something. How about a nod? Yeah. What you guys have done for us. Yeah, unexpected. Keep in mind before we got here, they were just like animals. Yeah, running around eating and there was clothes on. Yeah, and money really wasn't a huge factor. No money like they didn't have a valueless paper. They believe that a tribe no one in a tribe get on something is something the tribe had it belong to everybody. And that land could land can actually be possessed by a person like no one could own land. What are you fucking assholes? How much of a nightmare with the world be if there wasn't actual actually personal ownership and and if you couldn't own land if the land was the land I'll say what every other race thinks daily. Mm hmm. Thank God for whitey. Thank you. You said it out loud. Oh. Over the years, thousands of residents that were downwind from the nuclear reservation later nicknamed downwinders by local media. Cool. How did they come up with it? Hey, I'm a downwinder. They were diagnosed with thyroid disease and cancer and several children were born handicapped. There were so many victims and the issues were so visible in communities like Spokane that a movement was started to push the government to investigate whether or not the Hanford site was to blame. In 1986, the fed succumbed to public pressure and declassified 19,000 documents regarding the release and disposal of radioactive waste and people were like cardboard. What? Yeah. Yeah. The following year, the Department of Energy started the Hanford Environmental Dose Reconstruction Project, the HEDR, which was given the congressional, congressionally mandated task of studying whether or not the release of ice stoves into the air were to blame for thousands of cases of thyroid disease in the area. I love how it needs to be fucking studied. I mean, it's just that it has to be proven but they do but the it's the whole it's always just the same just buying fucking time. They're just buying time to fuck you more. Whenever there's contamination and cancer, they're just buying climate change. Yes. This shit. Always buying time waiting for people to die. Yeah. The final results were released or released twice. The first time they were announced in 1999 with the Department of Energy heading the study. 99. But that's good. Yeah. So, that's good. The people, the people who did it should be the ones who do the study, right? That's the best way to handle it. I think so. I think that who could do a better job than the people who poured the the radioactive waste in the dirt. They know it best. Yeah. They're not going to say something. They're not going to lie to save their own house. Oh, no fucking way. Never. That study was not well received. The study was then given over to Batelle, a Hanford contractor who released their results in 2002. Both rounds of results found that there was no connection between the release of radio. That was close. I was worried for a second that there might be. At Hanford and those suffering from thyroid disease nearby. No independent study was needed. No, you don't need one. We have two different studies done by the same people. Yeah, come on. Everything's good here. Although another government study from 1990 had found that Hanford's releases did put local population at risk for thyroid disease. How did our science get worse? So, so nine years before they didn't realize they had already put out a report saying that it fucked everybody. That same year, a massive 2000 litigant civil suit was filed against the Department of Energy. At the time, the plaintiffs lawyers were looking to settle for 500 million. The government responded by indemnifying all private contractors at Hanford, thereby clearing them of responsibility, ensuring that they would be safe from litigation. So, the fucking assholes, these private corporations who just fucked everybody destroyed the land and then and then gave people cancer, they just get a free ride. Yeah. And a lot of times too, not only that, they'll fucking send the attack dogs on the sick on the people they fucked. The feds would then go on to spend 600 million on defending itself in court. Okay, so six, six, six, 60 million. Okay, never mind. 60, but still 60 million. It's a lot. That's a lot of fucking. Yeah, it's crazy. I mean, yeah. Since then, a small number of the original 2000 cases have been heard, starting in 2005, when six bellwether cases were brought to trial, the jury awarded a total of 545,000 to two plaintiffs suffering from thyroid cancer, but the other four were denied judgments. What? In 2011, a jury heard the cases of another 139 patients and ended up awarding them all about 800,000 in total, or in total 5,683 per. Oh my god. How's your cancer? Five grand for cancer. How's your cancer? You know what? It's just cancer. Oh yeah. In 1899 1987, Hanford shut down its last reactor processing weapon grade plutonium. The rest of the reactors had already been shut down back in the 60s and 70s. Two years later, the Department of Energy, the EPA and the Washington State Department of Ecology, the EPA, began the framework for what would be the world's largest environmental cleanup. Among its goals is to restore the Columbia River Corridor for other uses and to set up onsite facilities for waste treatment and storage. Since then, the cleanup has cost the federal government $2 billion a year. 40 billion in total. So what? I mean, it's just so counterproductive. A 2014 report updated that the total costs are 113.6 billion with most of the cleanup work scheduled to be completed by 2060. Oh my god. 113 billion. I mean, that's fine. And you can't spare some fucking money for these people. The cost of the cleanup though astronomically high is not shocking when taken into account that the total number of radioactive waste stored at Hanford, which includes 25 cubic 25 million cubic feet of solid waste and 270 billion gallons of contaminated water. You can't even imagine how much water that is. No, what do you do? I mean, that's unimaginable. Yeah. Hartford is now the most contaminated nuclear site in the United States. I mean, I guess Chernobyl is probably a little bit worse. Yeah, fair. The biggest challenge in the cleanup is dealing with tank waste. Though much of it is already gone. Of the over 500 gallons of this high level waste that was produced by Hanford, only 56 million gallons remain in the tanks today. Over the years, the total has been reduced by 90% through evaporation, chemical treatment, leakage, and purposeful discharge into the ground. Oh, as long as we've gotten rid of it in a healthy way. An estimate of evaporation is my favorite. Rain. An estimated 130 million gallons of tank waste were sucked at 130 gallons of tank waste were sucked out of the tanks and discharged into the dirt to make room for more waste. Oh, fucking a dude. What the fuck? Jesus Christ. I get I just. Oh, God. I mean, it like when I used to work when I used to work construction on houses and I would see a dude like poor paint somewhere he shouldn't be like, are you out of your mind? That's that's the stupidest thing I've ever read. Yeah. That's the stupidest thing I've ever read. They needed to throw it out. They didn't have any more tanks. So they just took the old shit and dumped it in the ground and put the new shit like that made a fucking difference. Does anybody know the half life of ready the radioactive waste? Uh we do. There was a guy a friend of mine in college was got a job cleaning out asbestos from places and the guys he worked with were so dumb that they would just up in the attic take down their mask and start smoking a cigarette and be like, dude, what the fuck are you doing? I need to fucking smoke this shit. This shit isn't real. Don't worry. It's fireproof. I could smoke around it. Jesus Christ. Much of the tank waste has been relocated from the leaky single cell tanks to a newer double shelled one. No, double shell. Double shell. Also, isn't really that comforting. Double shell it two shells. Awesome. Though almost three million gallons of liquid waste still remain in the old tanks. Good. In 2012, the Department of Energy reported that one of the double shell tanks had a leak in the inner shell. That's okay though. That's why we got two. That's why there's the double the double thing. The following year, the Department of Energy announced that the tank was actually leaking 150 to 300 gallons of waste into the ground per year. Ah, they might want to really just come to their conclusions faster. When Washington State Governor Jay Inslee went to the Department of Energy to discuss solutions for the following week, he learned that it wasn't just one tank. It was six. Cool. So the plot doesn't thicken. Another thirteen were ready for leaking. Oh man, I'm so glad we put two shells on them. That was the way to go. Most of the waste that has been leaked from the tanks appears to just stay in the soil where it was dumped. Oh. But as of 2008, one million gallons of the radioactive liquid that had entered the groundwater, he created an underground plume that was making its way towards the Columbia River, the fourth largest river in the United States of America. Underground plume is always a good thing to hear. It doesn't sound good, right? It feels good. It makes me feel good like double shell. Yeah. If the cleanup doesn't proceed as scheduled, the plume could reach the river in 12 to 50 years. That 12 numbers a little scary. Yeah. The 50 years is better. The 12 ones frightening. They're both terrible. It's like we're in a fucking, it's like we're sprinting to end it all. Yeah. It's just like we, it used to be like I was thinking about this the other day when I was cutting up like you know when you have like a six pack and you cut up the plastic so that you don't kill fish or whatever. Yeah. Or birds. Yeah. That's I mean you should still do that but I mean does it really fucking matter at this point? I mean we fucked it all up anyway. I mean what you know what the fuck I'm an animal rights activist and I'm seriously just like does it matter when aren't you doing them a little bit of a favor by strangling them? They hire you to clean birds after an oil spill and you're the guy they arrest for just choking them. Yeah. They're better off. Yeah. Yeah. You're better off aren't they? I'm kind of. I mean you do make a good point. Jesus Christ. It's gonna be a real who done it when mankind's done. It really is. It's gonna be like clue. How did this happen? A vitrification plant which would use which would be used to turn the waste into glass tubes that are stable and could be buried safely has been in the work since 1991 and it was originally supposed to be completed by 1999. So, for whatever process you can take the radioactive waste and turn it into glass and then it's not harmful. Not harmful at all. Yeah. That's what they're saying. That's that's it's it's stable and then it can be buried safely and it's not gonna it's not gonna like leak or go anywhere. It's gonna be a a thing that isn't a problem. Then you can dispose of it without worrying about it. Well, I'm glad we're not doing that. Well, that has become difficult because construction actually didn't begin until the year 2000. Good. Supposed to be completed by 1999. Yeah. Well, let's not move on that. And it was later learned that the Department of Energy and Bechtel, the company contracted to build the plant for 4.3 billion, decided to save money. I love it already. You gotta cut corners with this shit. Pocket some for yourself. By starting construction before a process for the plant to vitrify waste had been designed and tested. So, wait. So, they're building a plant that they don't know how the plant's gonna work but that's the plant they're building. It would it would be like right now building a plant for time machines and just starting to build it. Yeah. And figuring it would all work itself out. Timing is everything in this business, baby. Hamford's waste is unlike any other material that has ever been vitrified. It comes in so many different types and forms that not one not just one process will work but the project went forward anyway without even the basic problem having been solved. Perfect. We're building a plant to do something that we don't know how to do. But it's gonna cost 4 billion. 4.3 billion. Woohoo. Man, that sums up America so fucking well. Yeah, that's pretty good. One of the first systems of the plant that was completed was the waste feed which was how the material moved through the facility to be processed. So, so that's how you're getting the material into the plant to be processed by the plant and turned into glass. Sure. So, tubes. But inspections found that solid waste was building up in the piping which could not only clog the pipes but it could create nuclear explosions. Great. Further testing found that the system used to propel the waste through the pipes was not only inefficient, it was so taxing on the pipes that it resulted in corrosion and possible leakage. Good. So, now the plant that's supposed to be there to turn the radioactive material into a stable form is now having a bomb center. Further testing. Oh, when the when these issues were revealed, the chief engineer on the project resigned. Whistleblower complaints were also brought against Bechtel by a higher-up engineer and a safety manager who said their concerns about safety at the plant were being suppressed. As it now stands, the vitrification plant is expected to cost 12.7 billion dollars. Good. And is mandated to start operating in 2019. Jesus Christ. I mean, just take your fucking time. Good God. I love, there's no, I love breaking you. I think I broke you. In 19- Don't take pride in this shit. 1957, Washington state formed the Washington public power supply system to provide power to local utilities. It would later be known as whoops. Okay. Um, I'm guessing that stands for the Washington housing of operational plutonium. State? Because of its financial gamble on nuclear power, it issued 2.25 billion in bonds back in the 1970s to pay for the construction of five nuclear power plants and had a default on the bonds, which was the largest bond default in history at that time. Only one of those five power plants was completed and it currently runs today. The Columbia generation generating system, CGS, which sits on the Hanford site. Critics say it's the most costly nuclear plant to run in the nation. It has also generated about 320,000 spent nuclear fuel rods that are so dangerous that just minutes of explosion near them can be lethal. The waste created by CGS is about 100 to 150 to 250 percent more radioactive than what is being currently held in the underground tanks. Well, that's good that we're kind of racing the underground or the above ground with what we're doing. Why stop doing it? I would say that's a fair point. Yep, thank you. If it's broke, keep doing it. Keep doing it and doing worse. Yeah, that's the best way to do it. As would be expected at a job site that deals with extremely dangerous materials and operates without any independent oversight, working conditions at the Hanford site are quite hazardous. What? There are no documents on exposures before 1987, but even that late into the site's existence, workers reported the effects of harmful radiation exposure, nosebleeds, headaches, watery eyes, burning skin, etc. Just from smelling vapers while near the underground tanks. Many of these workers have reported long-term disabilities, so they just smell shit when they're near underground tanks. Yeah, it honestly, it reminds like it's a lot like the like oil spills. Like when oil spills, like there's a lot of people in the Gulf who, oh yeah, like they, I mean, there's some circumstances where people come into contact with water and are forever different. Yeah, like there's, they have skin conditions, they get cancer from just touching fucking water. Yeah. Good times are had by all. Yeah, yeah.