 I Is tired People say this is funny not Gary Gara Dave okay someone or something is tickling Is it for fun and this is not gonna come to tickling clock okay? You are Queen Fakie of made-up town all hell Queen shit of lies though a bunch of religious Virgins go to mingle and do my brain Hi Dave you excited bro excited Yeah May 14th is the next live virtual dollop We'll be doing another dollop with looped live. It'll be a 6 p.m. Pacific time We are doing another live virtual dollop these shows are crazy. They have a lot of like media in them videos and pictures Dave it does a very great job and They've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade Arby's we've got the meats no no no wrong copy Dave wrong copy. This is for the yeah Just stick to what we're doing so May 14th looped live 6 p.m. Pacific time join us again for another live virtual dollop We've got the meats and There might be some hammering going on while we do yeah, there's some construction happening We didn't know this we don't have a lot of time today because I'm getting on a plane tonight So there might be some construction in the middle in which case you just got a deal or you turn it off and you go That's sucked. Yeah, we could just pretend. It's like a sound effect the chicken Jesus Christ has inspired contributions to art culture cuisine science and religion The chick the chicken just chickens in general right okay Chickens were and still are a sacred animal in some cultures the hen was a worldwide symbol of fertility Eggs were hung in Egyptian temples to ensure a bountiful river flood It's yeah, no that makes sense. It's just it's just thinking ahead We guys are doing that California get these eggs up get the eggs up people on the full need rained You just start hanging eggs around your house your neighbors are like, I don't know what's it worked in Egypt, bro I am the egg man The rooster was a universal sign of virility for the Romans the chicken was a fortune teller Can you imagine being in a time? Someone's like, excuse me chicken. What should I take this woman's hand or should I go off on my own talk to me? Well, I just had an interesting talk with the chicken chickens Accompanied Roman armies and their behavior was carefully observed before battle chick uh Leviticus what's the chicken doing sir? It's walking around and eating victory Oh good. We got a good feeling Victor a good appetite men victory was likely according to the writings of Cicero When one contingent of birds refused to eat before a sea battle in 249 BC an Angry console through them overboard His re-records that he was then defeated Jesus, yeah, so don't fuck with the chicken. It sounds like a prick The rooster plays a small but crucial role in the Gospels in help. That's the Bible Oh, yeah, I don't know where you're at with that stuff I'm right. I'm knee deep in the Bible and helping to fulfill the prophecy that Peter would deny Jesus quote before the cock crows Hmm. Hmm in the ninth century Pope Nicholas the first decreed that a figure of a rooster should be placed atop Every church as a reminder of the incident Which is why many churches still have Cock-shaped weather veins today. Yeah, so it's time to get rid of those Yeah, so that's stupid turns out those are religious That's a shame. Yep chickens were first domesticated not for eating but for cock fighting. Oh Okay, and tell the advent of large-scale industrial production in the 20th century the economic and nutritional combination of chickens was not much People didn't really eat chickens that much and just one day. We were like god goddamn chickens Getting hungry watching those two cocks fight the male of the species can be a fierce fierce animal Especially when bred and trained for fighting nature Armed the rooster with a bony leg spur humans have supplemented that feature with an arsenal of metal spurs and small knives Strap to the birds leg Yeah, what yeah, they strap metal things onto the bird and they so they have it They have like a natural in the back of their leg They have like a little bone spur thing when they can attack other But in cock fighting they'll put on like blades. What oh, yeah, it's like they come armed They're fucking blade up a rooster's feet a cock fighting is no it's no joke man They come I mean I know it's no joke, but I didn't realize we were like turning them into like vampire. It's a fucking warrior pit Listen, I mean shit is real in there. Did you think it was like a boxing match? No, it's to the death I mean it's not it's not Super insane It's not like a crazy battle if you can easily take two hands and pull out one of the opponents just okay very simply That's a fair point. I'm fucking king of the world get out of here asshole. Oh shit. Can I have some seed? Cockfighting is illegal in the United States, Louisiana was the last state to ban it in 2008. Wow. Yeah, they're cool Jesus staying up with the times and I'm sure they're still pissed about it, and I'm sure they're still doing it Yeah, it has claims to be the world's oldest continual sport So the oldest second discus, right? And Javelin artistic depictions of a rooster combatants are scattered throughout the ancient world Such as in the first century AD mosaic adorning a house in Pompeii It's pictures of chicken fighting the ancient Greek city of Pergamum Established a cockfighting amphitheater. Oh my god to teach valor to future generations of soldier. Are you ready to watch something? Are you ready to flutter? Are you not entertained? Are you not entertained? No Get some rabbits. Let's have a gladiator funny chicken. We're not fighting each other get more birds In 2004 when an internet international team of geneticists produced a complete map of the chicken genome, right? Mm-hmm, so they figured out how all the chicken started with it Yeah, the chicken was the first domesticated animal the genome map provided an excellent opportunity to study how? millennia of Domestication can alter a species It started with the red jungle fowl from Southeast Asia Whoa, which bred with three other species which eventually led to the domesticated bird in America. We see today Is it are they domesticated? Yeah, they're domestic. Yeah, they're domesticated just because the mean be decayed They domesticated doesn't just mean like they're kicking it in your house like yeah I know I don't think it necessarily means that you sit but doesn't there I mean is it just that you simply can they won't Leave them like they're yeah, they're just won't roll. Yeah, okay deal. Okay? If you look it up in the dictionary it says domesticated means they're your deal. Oh really? I think so Now Dave I have a dictionary over here go Do you Chickens started in India and moved across Mesopotamia then to Egypt where they were for eating and fighting Then chickens made their way to Rome and into Europe, but when Rome fell So did the chicken such a shame now a lot of people don't remember that part of that No, they don't it's not that doesn't come up in all the stories No, they don't say chickens weren't built in that Hannibal rolled in yeah, and then the chickens were like I'm out of here, bro Hey, there's later. We have fallen chicken out Some believe the Romans had farms set up to fatten up the chickens But when the farms were gone the chickens returned to the normal size That's the idea sure Europeans are having a North America found a continent teeming with turkeys and ducks for the plucking and eating Archaeologists believe that chickens were first brought to the New World by Polynesians Who reached the Pacific Coast of South America a century or so before Columbus, okay? Okay, we're getting we're taking the hit we're taking the chicken from the beginning of chickens and now Now we're in America. We got the chicken into America. Yeah Well in the 20th century chickens played a relatively minor role in the American diet and economy Although people did enjoy their eggs Yep, the breakthrough for chickens was the fortification of feed with antibiotics and vitamins Oh, here we which allowed chickens to be raised indoors So chickens need sunlight to synthesize vitamin D like all Things do but that was it that was a thing that the coach of the 49ers Bruce Wall she used to do Before Super Bowl games as he would make his he would take his team out of the hotel and make them walk around the hotel in the sunlight To get vitamin D smart. He was a winner So through the first doing that with me before dollars. You got it. That's actually a good idea Yeah, so through the first decades of the 20th century Chicken spent their days wandering around a barnyard, you know pecking for food Sure, but now they could be sheltered from weather and predators and fed a controlled diet in an environment design To have a minimum of distractions of antibiotics and just living so now that they just now They're just these things in a in a warehouse And they just can't move because there's so many oh now Yeah, like factory farming if factory farming that's what arrived and the chicken was transformed from like Yeah, the chicken into this protein producing thing that everyone loved No, they look like Hans and Franz chickens. They're insane. They love like tits in the 1990s chicken past beef as America's favorite meat And the cows are like what's up? Yeah Selecting breeding has made the the the chickens so docile that even if chickens are given access access to outdoor space a Marketing device that qualifies the resulting meat to be sold as free range. Uh-huh. So they just have to open the door Oh, I've always got a wonder. Well, I know that it's bullshit I wasn't sure exactly how it was bullshit Yeah, they just open the door and they go look they're free range Okay, the chickens are like we don't even know what that is Like if you had an agoraphobic and you open the door you could be like he's a social butterfly Yeah, that's what these chickens are they're agoraphobic because they they're so they've been so fucked up for so many years that you Open the door now and they're like what's that? Yeah, that's where you naturally should be You're talking about man We've been my family's been in in a warehouse for like 34 generations Yeah, and well and you know, you know the machine that like picks them up before they go to slaughter You ever seen that thing that to me is one of like the worst-looking devices ever. It's horrifying Looks like a murder car wash. So when they are given access to outdoor space They prefer hanging out at the mechanized trough waiting for the next delivery of food We've basically made chickens Americans. That's I'm talking about Chickens used to be great browsers, but they can't do that all they want to do now is eat Yeah, it's good it is hard to believe that these animals awaiting their turn in the fryer are the same animals that were worshipped in many parts of the Asian world for their fighting prowess and Believe by the Romans to be a direct communication with fate. It's hard to believe that is Until you hear the story of Mike Mike the chicken Okay Mike was a chicken yeah on September 10th 1945 He died That was a quick story and that's where our story begins. Whoa. He was a plump five-year-old cockerel When he was beheaded on the 10th of September 1945, okay It was just a normal act on this farm farmer Lloyd Olson of fruit to Colorado did the deed because his wife Clara Was having her mother over for dinner that night Right nice meal, right? Well and also no I knew that his mother-in-law enjoyed a bit of the roasted chicken. Yeah, I was her thing She liked the neck. Oh the next so she was she enjoyed the neck of the chicken, right? Okay, so she was a murderer She's a horrible person. Gotcha with that in mind Olson tried to save most of Mike's neck So he's trying to kill the bird who the fuck wants to eat a chicken neck I don't eat chicken but like some people like chicken neck neck neck Other people eat the feet the feed eating people some people eat the whole bird. Okay, whole fucking bird. I don't eat them, right but Breast meat was the best. No, that's that's the way to go. You know breast meat is Claws, no, it's like a it's like a thing But you know you can also eat the rest of it you can pick away at the feet or anything The cool thing about the feet is you can eat and then pick your teeth with it afterwards It's not a cool. It's pretty cool. The only reason to order it is because you can do funny bits At the table with the feet Right, you know you can kind of do like a Benny in June sort of like dancing. Yeah like a dancing bread roll Anything else? I think I'm out So he tried to save Mike's neck is as much as he could when cutting off the head, right? Uh-huh. It's a hard thing to do. So he accidentally made his act acts miss Mike's jugular vein Plus one ear and most of his brain stem so he hit him high and he just he missed it He basically missed the neck he got him above the neck area I off some some of the head an ear most of the brain stem and then to his surprise Mike didn't die Mike reeled around like a headless chicken at first right, but then pretty soon he settled down Yeah, you could you calm down daddy and even started pecking at the ground for food with his new stump Wait and making preening motions and letting out throaty gurgling's This is a terrible story so Mike Mike takes a whack and He he gathers himself and he's basically got no head he is bit like what are we like? What are we talking about? Is he's pretty just kind of like dangling to the side a little bit? I think it's hang I think it's hanging on like like a like a almost like a cuticle It's like there's just a little bit. Maybe the skin is just keeping it together But it's just a head dangling and he's just the stump and his upside down head is trying to eat No, his throat is his whole His whole area the wound medically speaking. Oh Christ. Okay. Well, this is This is good. Sorry Mike reeled around. Oh, I already did that Olson the farmer was bewildered and so he just left Mike. He was like well that you took a hit So I'm gonna keep I'm gonna let you keep doing what you're doing crazy decision The next crazy crazy decision the next morning. Yeah, it is a crazy decision. Yeah, it's sort of psychotic finish the fucking job No, it's sort of like a psychopath move. Yeah. Yeah, well, he's a fighter I'll let him live a horrible exit a tortured life The next morning when Olson found Mike asleep in the barn Having attempted to tuck his head under his wing as he always had Hmm the farmer took it upon himself to figure out how to feed this complete monstrosity. What the this farmer Is a fucking disaster, I don't know he's pretty sweet. Well He's gonna try and feed the bird All right, turned out Olson had to do his deposit food and water and the Mike's exposed to some esophagus with the eyedropper He even got small grains of corn sometimes in as a treat What What kind of person is Let's it play out like this. I don't know but he's schizophrenic I mean he was like it was he was gonna just take off the neck He did and now he's got like now. He has a new shaped pet He has a headless chicken that he's like put some seed in it. It's neck. Yeah I mean, well you when you're presented with new things in life Maybe don't stamp him out. Maybe let him see how they play out. Okay. Maybe he was a religious man He's like well God didn't want this chicken to die. We don't know what the deal was Yeah, I get well look you can use religion as any excuse. Okay, so he was religious so he's a fucking lunatic now The reason Mike survived was because of how his skeleton was shaped Because a chicken skull includes two huge holes For holding its eyes in place Its brain fits snugly into the remaining space at a 45 degree angle, right? So the eyes are here 45 degree angle, right? This means you could slice They're good to scalp a bit of the brain off like if you go clean through this way Uh-huh, you can slice the brain off, right? You go to 90 degree angle. You go perpendicular Uh-huh you slice the brain off and then that means you leave a good portion of the cerebellum and brain stem that behind So so if you lob straight you've left a chunk of brain and that's the chunk of brain that keeps you moving Like you can take all kinds of hits to the brain Yeah, but if it brings them that's why zombies have to be shot through the brain But your cerebellum and your brain stem does it basically like it is a zombie chicken. It's well. It's not a great It's not a great chicken and it it's it's not it's not gonna be me So his little friend that he's like this is a fighter is really just like an auto I mean well he's things dead, but what are chickens anyway like it's not like before he was painting like he's a chicken So what's the difference between a chicken that's just got a brain stem left and a chicken that doesn't yeah But I think that's the thing right is like you can't just judge the quote like if that were to be a human We would be like let's let's end this for this person or would we put him in the circus? Well, I mean obviously if you listen to this podcast, we would take them on a fucking world tour, but I'm saying and like Morality wise yeah, oh morality wise you like this is not a this is not a good life I mean it's I am I am I am not arguing That the life's the chickens life is a great life Or a good life or even a decent life, but it's a life man. We wouldn't let it we wouldn't do this with a human So you have the you have the functioning part alive in the brain that keeps it Looking like it's alive. So it's surviving. Yeah So Mike cerebellum was positioned below the massive eye holes and was spared by the axe So he's basically able to perform his basic motor functions and breathe He was he was more clumsy because he didn't have eyes So you follow over shit I Mike was so unfazed by the whole experience that farmer Olson decided to hit the road and take his miracle foul on a national tour. Okay, so Why I guess why is really the question but but People want to see it man. What the fuck? I mean see that I would actually I would actually be interested in seeing that chicken We're done with this phase of history, right? I have gone like it's hard to tell sometimes where we are actually at but we are definitely out of the I have a horrible disfigured creature I don't know. I don't know for you are what about the cow at UC Davis tour look at top the cow at UC Davis where they took off the side they took off its side and replaced it with like Fiberglass or plastic that you can see into it So it just tours around or it stays at UC Davis, but anyway people can go in and look and see Well, I'll be honest first. I've heard of the fiberglass cow. Okay, um, so why don't we well that maybe I'll put a pin in that Maybe we dollop that said Cuz that's insane that's fucking insane Mike was featured in Time magazine and Life magazine. What the fuck he got his name in the Guinness Book of World Records Biggest shithead. No biggest longest life without a head like he's fucking breaking records He's a record breaking chicken and he's popular people like him must have been a fun call to make he had his own side shows People were excited the American public was excited. He did not have his own side show American public He was in a fucking room and people paid money to see he wasn't like alright. Here's the lineup gang You'll do a quick tan up top. I'll close out The American public was excited to see Mike the headless wonder chicken, which was his name now Mike even had his own manager who did a great job because he'd made farmer Olson a fortune at the height of his fame Mike was making $4,500 a month and Was valued at $10,000 Which I think is a low valuation if you're making 4500 a month We need to stop rewarding morons is a lot more than a lot of people in America make right now Yes, and that was 1945. Yes, but again, I don't think Mike is the one making this money Well, he probably had nicer digs But he didn't fucking know he was a goddamn zombie chicken. He didn't have any fucking guy He wasn't like ooh new shoes. He's probably being treated so much better, but he's brain dead He's not like oh nice bubble bath his success resulted in a wave of copycat chicken beheadings Oh Christ though none of the unfortunate victims live more than a day or two That okay because Mike was special. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was fucking special. I mean that is just So there's a people all of the country trying to make chicken Mike's I know what I want to do with my life. I Want to shred a chicken's brain and hit the road for a few months Now of course Mike had no idea what was going on. Hey me Mike There were many photos taken Cheese as part of the site show where Olson or his manager of the hold up Mike's dried severed head next to his neck Sorry, okay. I'm really I'm really just I'm trying to get this visual in my head of what this fucking thing Say what you just said again for me There are many photos taken as part of the site show where farmer Olson or his manager Would hold up Mike's dried severed head next to his neck So they would hold up they would hold up the chicken with he was just got like a Head stump and then they would hold up the head like the head that because he's lost Had that's not really not a fresh head right at this point. It's been out there a while crispy. Yeah, it's a little crispy dried jerky Yeah, it's not a good head Although it turns out it wasn't even Mike's head the truth the truth was that Olson's cat it actually ran off with Mike's original head So they were using a different head, but no one knew the difference. I Mean at least look if you're gonna do this show at least have some goddamn integrity Well, I don't know I don't know if there's any integrity involved in this at all I don't think there and I don't think there's anyone that's gonna be like hey daddy Mike's head. Yeah, I knew Mike trust me Anyone that's going to see a chicken neck show isn't really gonna be like hmm. They want to believe I've done the math That puzzle piece doesn't fit there. Yeah, they want to believe. Yeah, well, they all people have hope and they know No, no, they don't they want to believe fucking idiots. They want to know their morons That things can be true you want to go downtown go see a chicken show This chicken got most of its head cut off and now it's a wonder chicken Okay, so this went on for 18 months. Oh He's on the road for 18 months, which is hard. We've been on the road. It's a fucking rough life being on the road It's hard enough living out of a suitcase let alone having a quarter of your brain, right? The National Tour took Mike and his farmer Olson to Phoenix and And as they were hanging out in their motel room Mike was snacking on some corn bits I love the way that this is fucking for hanging out and Mike snacking It's just a guy a guy on his bed dead and they're watching maybe the Texaco the Texaco hour Uh-huh, and and this is and the and the chickens just sitting there without a head get Mike's dead And he's putting corn into the hole just a normal thing just a farmer feeding a neck hole while watching TV and a super eight, right? But then Mike began to choke Really, I don't know what it sounds like probably terrifying headless chicken is choking Farmer Olson to his horror realized that he'd left the eyedropper at the previous day show So he was unable to clear the airways You have one job at this point and Mike choked to death I mean Well our you know our hearts go out to the family and friends of Mike, but um You I mean if this is you if you're If you're if you've locked yourself into some position where you were just gonna give a lady a Chicken neck and now you have a fucking freak beast that people want to go see for cat You just have to remember to fucking keep it alive He's gonna keep the air hole keep that fucking eye you have two eyedroppers all you have to have a backup All you have to do is feed it and keep the air hole open. Those are your only jobs There's two job and count money three jobs according to the official Mike the headless chicken website What in the 18 months he spent without his head he grew from a mere 2.5 pounds to almost 8 pounds So he was fucking bringing it Like this is a chicken that was no washing without a head no flourishing no living the greatest Probably lost the part of his brain that was like you're full Mike That was cut off when this fucking dickhead farmer dickhead farmer This is a chicken that's making forty five hundred dollars a month and live in the life of fucking Riley Imagine being dumb enough to walk yourself ass backwards into having a headless chicken show In an interview after his death Farmer Olson said Mike was a quote robust chicken a fine specimen of a chicken Except for not having a head He was he was always so prophetic farmer Olson and I gotta say he was very professional Mike was a very professional chicken Dave headless chicken Dave when you don't have a brain You're probably gonna seem like a rule follower Farmer Olson took Mike's body to researchers at the University of Utah for an autopsy and they wanted to study farmer Olson instead Who found that a blood clot in Mike's neck had prevented him from bleeding to death when he was beheaded Okay, so God put a blood clot in there probably the thousands of chickens that were trying to be the copycat chickens So what I'm gonna say to you now is that that brain didn't have a lot of blood going to it in the first place So maybe he was better off Without most of his head what I'm gonna say to you is that your back must hurt from that reach because That's not true. They still love Mike in Colorado every third week of May locals hold an annual Mike the headless chicken festival Where they you can enjoy music and contest and food Which is what Mike would have wanted no he liked to eat. Nope, especially corn How often do they hold this every year Colorado Mike the headless chicken festival? Well, they should stop I love Mike look I love Mike too Doesn't seem like you do yeah, no the farmers just a dickhead and I just think you're giving we're giving this Chicken is not a folk hero. It had a fuck. It's a blood clot. It's basically a walking blood clot I think we're gonna agree to disagree about how much of a hero he was he was not a hero He was he was not a hero He's a hero. That's the end of our small about American hero Mike the chicken