 You guys want to send me serial killer stories from Germany? That's not America! Oh dude, we gotta do a Holocaust dollop. That'll be the funniest and best. Jesus Christ. That's a good call. Some of the stuff that people send me. They hear about the guy who molested a thousand kids? I did hear about that. Yeah, do that! There's nothing funny about it. I'm gonna hear how you guys riff on that one. Do an Ed Gein one. Oh, so gross. Oh god, you wanna look who to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not gonna become a tickly quad cat. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No, I see you've done, my friend. No, no. Dave, are you excited, bro? Yes! Are you excited? What? Yeah! Yeah! May 14th is the next live virtual dollop. We'll be doing another dollop with Looped Live. It'll be 6 p.m. Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual dollop. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of like media in them. Videos and pictures. It does a very great job. And they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade. Arby's, we've got the meets. No, no, no. Wrong copy, Dave. Wrong copy. This is for the... Yeah, just stick to what we're doing. So May 14th, Looped Live, 6 p.m. Pacific time. Join us again for another live virtual dollop. We've got the meets. June 28, 1813. Uh-huh. Oren Porter Rockwell was born in Belcher, Massachusetts. Okay. To a farmer and Sarah Rockwell. He was named after his father, but they threw an extra Oren, the Oren. So as far as... So he's got two... O-R-I-N. And the son is O-R-R-I-N. Okay, so it's totally different. Yeah, you'd be able to completely tell them different. You can establish your own individuality now. When you call the house in a few generations, you'll say, can I talk to Oren? And they'll say, one hour or two hours. Yeah, okay, that's good. He was the second of nine sons and daughters. When he was four years old, the family moved to Palmyra, New York, 10 miles away from what would become the Fox Sisters house. Remember the Fox Sisters? Which ones? The spiritualist... Oh, yeah, yeah, right. And the Burned Over District. Sure. Very early on now, the Burned Over District. Central New York State was experiencing the second great awakening, a time of numerous religious revivals by various denominations, especially Methodists and Baptists. Oh, man. So this is the point in America where the Americans are heading out into the madness of the wilderness. And out there, the organized religion is not really organized, so people are coming up with their own offshoots of shit left and right. Right. It's crazy out there. I'd like that, Tom. It sounds kind of just like a trade show. A little bit. Like it's kind of like we walk around a trade show a little bit. Yep. Kind of soak up what's going on. What are you offering? I'm offering a headless chicken. Oh, God, no, Farmer Olson. That might be in the future. No, that's the breeze. In 1918, the Smith family moved in to the farm next door to the Rockwells. The Smith family was known to dabble in folk magic such as divining or using a dowsing rod and searching for treasure with a sear stone or a peep stone, which is either a clear stone to look into like a crystal ball or a stone with holes in it to look through. Yeah, good. So that's smart. Sort of like rock glasses, really. You know what science is? Yeah, science. This is obvious. If you find a hole, a rock with a hole in it, you can look through it to find treasure. Everything's different. That's how you find treasure. Of course, dude. Science. Any religion where you have to look through a hole in a rock to know more? Yeah. I'm out. Look, we found a treasure find in rock. We're going to be rich, Ma. Rich, I tell you. Oh, boy, the Lord hath blessed us. The grandfather, father, and mother of the family all reported to have religious visions and dreams that they followed, though they did not belong to a church. Okay. So we're starting to getting in there. So they're starting to... They're all heavy-fishings. Right. But this is going to be like they're going to create their own... I don't know what's going to happen. We'll have to stay tuned. Fucking bullshit. They were described by a contemporary critic as, quote, lazy, ignorant, and superstitious. Having a firm belief in ghosts and witches, the telling of fortunes, pretending to believe that the earth was filled with hidden treasures. Okay. Okay. So... Earth's a pinata. Now, use this rock and let's smash through it. If we can just get down deep enough, we can find all of the crowns. Look at Earth's candy. All the crown. Inside the earth is the king of earth. He lives in the middle, which is made of chocolate. I'm a doctor and a scientist. Look through this hole in a rock. Oh, fuck me. That's amazing. Well, they believe that the treasure was hidden there by Captain Kidd or the Spaniards. I mean, there's just a stretching of reality there. Yeah. Being miserably poor and not much disposed to obtain an honest livelihood by labor, the energies of their minds seemed to be most directed towards finding where these treasures were concealed and the best mode of acquiring their possession. Okay. So we've already established now that these people are going to waste their lives. We don't know that. Yes, we do. At the age of three... No, at the age of 10....Porter Rockwell broke his leg. Okay. Now the backwards doctor who did it said it apparently did a poor job. If you could imagine that. Yeah, I'm shocked. A backwards... Yeah. We've already learned about doctors, so he wasn't actually a doctor. He was like a guy who rubbed down horses. Yeah, right. Okay, same thing. That's what you want to work on your leg. He also put up a sign that said, can't fix legs in his front. Yeah. Non-leg fixer. Well, I'll give it a shot. So it left Porter with one leg two inches shorter than the other and a lifelong limp. The shorter Porter. Now the Smith boy also had a limp. Okay. So you see where things are coming together. These two are just going to walk around in circles for the rest of their lives? At the time, it was expected all young men would join the local militia or turn to farming, but due to his limp, Porter was not a suitable candidate for either calling, which led to him being bullied and taunted by other boys. And so was the young Smith boy. Okay, so we got the limp twins. But Porter became tough. Okay. And he fought back and he protected the Smith boy. Okay. He was younger. If you have a limp, you definitely are... You meet another limpy. You're like, okay. Well, his limp did not allow him to plow straight. Oh, so he would start plowing in circles. Yeah. Yeah. I can't believe you can't compensate. Yeah. I don't think so. I think you just go in circles. You just your fucking brain can't... I'm just... I'm just going with what I believe would happen. Okay. All right. That's how crop circles work. Now the Smith boy next door was named Joseph Smith. And his Smith was due to a... His limp was due to a bone infection when he was a boy. He was... Oh, no, sorry. He was eight years older than Porter. And the two boys bonded over their limp. Their limps. Okay. And Porter was the tough one. Joseph Smith had his first vision in the early 1820s. Quote, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun which descended gradually until it fell upon me. When the light rested upon me, I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description standing above me in the air. One of them spoke unto me, calling me by name, and he said, pointing to the other, this is my beloved son, hear him. So it's just kind of like the MC of the vision? Yeah. Next to the vision. You're going to love your next visionary. This guy plays all over dreams and hallucinations all over the country. You're going to see me in quite a few visions. I work the circuit. I do a lot of announcing for a lot of visions. Yeah. Pretty popular at this point. All right, put your hands together. Do you know the guy who does the, let's get ready to rumble in boxing? I'm like him, but for visions in the 1800s. I'm that guy. Joseph and his parents considered this, this pivot, this was a pivotal event in the history of humankind. Yeah, he had a dream. Joseph's vision. Yeah, he dreamt. Second only to the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Hey, you know what I mean? Yeah. Second to that. That's pretty much, that's a normal way to look at it. Now as a boy, Porter eagerly listened to the conversations between his parents and the parents of Joseph Smith. And he used to beg his mother to allow him to sit up and keep the pine torch burning in order to listen to young Joseph Smith, tell of his visions, angels, and a gold book. Oh yeah. He became so convinced of his friend's stories that Porter worked daily after farm chores, picking up berries and chopping firewood by moonlight, giving all his money to Joseph Smith to help print the first book of Mormon. Yeah. I had a feeling. Porter was illiterate and would never be able to read the book. What a fucking... It's pretty fucked up story right there. Yeah. He's just spending all his time to make money to give to Joseph Smith that he can't read. Right. That's selfless. On April 6th, 1830, the Church of Latter-day Saints was organized and Porter was baptized into it, making him the youngest Mormon to join the church on its very first day. He was 16 years old. That's not really much of a record. What? Yeah, it's kind of an easy one to break also. Yeah. It would be like... You were just one of the first guys there. Yeah. Yeah, it's a bullshit stat. Yeah. That's a real beefed up stat. The youngest member in the church's history, because he's the youngest one here. Yeah. No more statements and or questions. Persecution closely followed the new church, which led its followers to move regularly. First to Kirtland, Ohio, but their stay was very short there. People fucking hated them, right? Yeah. Porter was then sent with the first group of saints. None of these people were all saints. Sure. The first ones. Yeah, yeah. No, because Joseph Smith had a dream. Yeah, well, you heard it. Yeah. And they were sent to Jackson County, Missouri in August 1831, which is a site Smith had selected for a new temple in designated Jackson County as the location of the millennial Zion or New Jerusalem and as the gathering place for the saints. You laugh at it, but this is no different than Catholicism or any other fucking thing. It's not. It's not. It's all the same. It is. It's just people making shit up. It is, but this is just so recent. It's literally... And very, very recent bullshit. I mean, there's holes in it when you really look at it. Where is it? Listen, I don't know what's got more holes in it. This story or those rocks that we're going to go treasure hunting with. The Mormons then came in mass to Missouri. Now, the Mormonism was picking up at this point and becoming popular. Well, because it made a lot of sense. It did to me. There were over a thousand on four settlements, which started to concern the locals. A lot of people have moved to Jackson to avoid religious bullshit, and now it had come to them. Yeah. They certainly weren't down with what they considered a new and weird religion. Yeah. The locals looked upon the Mormons as un-American. They also accused the saints of slave tampering, which is not, do not tamper with my slaves. Yeah. What is slave? I mean, would it... Get in the business of your slaves. Yeah. Giving them money and... Oh, oh, yeah. Right. Talk to them. Right. Communicating with them. Like humans. Hey, you even telling my slave that he's a person? Yeah. I said, I should. Who's the Lord? Right over there, Joe. Yeah. Okay. That's Joseph. He had a dream. Okay. I had a dream, too. Now we're here. Okay. They were also concerned that the Mormons would ally themselves with the Indians. Now, Porter himself, as he grew older, made a peculiar Mormon. He enjoyed three activities that were condemned by the Mormons. Drinking. Smoking. Smoking tobacco and swearing up a storm. He was also known to frequently snore so loudly during temple service that he became a regular source of amusement. Oh, there's so Porter snoring away. Oh, that limpic snoring loser. The tale of two boys. The Rockwells were part of the Big Blue Branch and Porter operated a ferry on the Big Blue River with his father. Okay. Would he steal the, would he be steering the boat in circles? I guess so, yeah, probably, because he's got the one, the smaller one. Their home was the ferry master's house over the mouth of the Big Blue River where it emptied into the Missouri and Jackson County. It was here at the age of 19 that Porter met Luann Beebe. The two were married by the prophet himself. Ah, that's nice. That's nice for Joseph Smith to stop being a prophet. Again, persecution came, but this time it was Missouri style. Mobs came through the Mormon villages and killed, tormented and burned down homes. Now, okay. Maybe a little out of line. Well, maybe a little over aggressive. I mean, I don't know if they're really bothering people enough that you have to burn down their fucking houses. Just let them do their thing. Was that essentially it where they just essentially like, they're so fucking annoying? There are several reasons. I think I get into it here. Okay. So the first attack that Porter and his father were, they were assaulted at their ferry home, which is a great name for a house. I wish it was F-A-R-Y home. Hello. Welcome. Soon after his first child was born, Porter returned home one day to find his wife sitting in a pile of rubble, victim of another Missouri mob raid. His entire home was gone as with the contents and it was just trashed. It was at this time that Porter vowed from that day forth to never again be unable to defend himself or his family. Uh-oh. He practiced with the pistols and rifles until he became a deadly shot. Okay. He even modified his pistols, cutting down the barrels and filing down the trigger guard so he could draw them quicker. Okay. There's also- Again, though, he'll always be aiming two inches to the left. Yeah, because he's the part short. Half short. It's part short. There is also a split in the church at the time. Several high-placed church leaders were excommunicated. Things were getting tense now both within the church and with the locals. Yeah. It was at this time that the prophet organized a band of men to obey the prophet whether right or wrong. Okay. Yeah, that's an interesting- No matter what I do- That's where- That's definitely- You will defend me. Uh, yeah, go ahead in the back. What if you kill my horse? That is- That is one of those things. Whatever I do, you will defend me. I can do no wrong. What if you fuck my wife? I mean- Whatever I do, that is just something that the Lord wanted. Okay. And you have to defend me. Okay. Even if it's anal. And by the way, I'm gonna fuck your wife and kill your horse. Okay. This is a bad thing I'm entering into. It feels like- It feels like a bad gig for me. Drink this blood. They first called themselves the Daughters of Zion, but quickly changed the name to- Two manly. Son of Dan because it was a little more masculine. Sorry. To sons of Dan? Sons of Dan. You gotta- That's why you always want to have five on the list of possible names. The Daughters of Zion- Okay, we're voting today. Gentlemen, everyone get around. We got two names on the docket. We got sons of Dan and the Daughters of Zion. Alright, so take your pick. You want a shit sandwich or puke pasta? Put the name in the hat there. We will pick a name tonight. What's good is we know they're both really good names. Can we not- I have a question. Can we not be named after girls and then I have a file out question. Who the fuck is Dan? Alright, there'll be no more questions. Let's get voting. I mean, the sons of Dan. Dan, Dan. It's like worse. It sounds like- I mean, that just sounds like an ABC Family show. The sons of Dan. You're watching the sons of Dan right after the new normal. Sons of Dan will be right back followed by a Daughters of Zion ABC Family Thursday nights. Its members became known as Danites. Oh, wow. They really are fucking off the tracks with this one. They had no branding skills whatsoever. You got me anxious. No, they needed one. They needed one marketing guy. That's all they needed. It was believed that Porter was one of the leaders of the Danites and when the Missourians found out about his- This is like a dance troupe. It's not. Okay. When the Missourians found out about this Mormon secret police, they were outraged and so began the 1838 Mormon War. It is sometimes called the Missouri Mormon War to differentiate it from the Utah Mormon War and the Illinois Mormon War. Good that they're peaceful people. Basically the Mormons had had enough shit. They'd taken enough shit. Yeah, they'd taken enough shit. They'd never the raiding parties and fucking mobs. One man, Sidney Rigdon, gave a speech. Rigdon declared that the Latter-day Saints would no longer be driven from their homes by persecution from without or dissension from within. And that if enemies came again to drive out the saints, quote, and that mob that comes on us to disturb us, it shall be between us. And them a war of extermination, for we will follow them until the last drop of their blood is spilled, or else they will have to exterminate us, for we will carry the seat of war to their own houses and their own families, and one party of the other shall be utterly destroyed." So they were- Yeah, well again- They were over it. A guy had a dream. Yeah. You know, a guy went to sleep. Yeah. A dream. Yeah. Let's have a war. Yeah. Yeah. Great. The Danonites would go on to have quite a reputation in the West. Years later, the Sacramento Daily Union in 1857 would write, the Danonites be having become obnoxious to the head of the Mormon Church. These are the Danonites, as they are called, but in reality, a set of thieves and vagabonds from all parts of the earth, fugitives from justice, cutthroats, murders, ever ready to execute the will of those in authority over them, no matter what the extent or how capricious the motive. In short, they are fiends in human shape who gloat with admiration on the flow of blood and exult in human glory, afflicting by their own merciless hands. Okay. Okay, so that might also be a little hyperbole. It's a little intense. That's tough. But they basically created a death squad. They created a squad to fight the fucking battles. Right. And these guys were like, I'll do anything for you. It's the worst kind of army. Well, that's why religion always seems to bring out rationality and peace. I agree. It really definitely makes people, well, it makes people kill. Let's be right. A letter from a Danite. Quote, if Joseph Smith should tell me to kill US President Marvin Van Buren, I would immediately start and do my best to assassinate him and let the consequences be as they would. Okay. So that's who they are. Again, he had a dream. He went to sleep and saw something. Let's kill Martin Van Buren if we have to. The Danites began warring with the Missourians. Bands of one or the other would invade settlements, burning houses, killing cattle and plundering. One day when some Mormons were being chased by a group of Missouri wildcats, Porter had had enough. He drew his two Colt 32 caliber pistols out of his pants pocket, wheeled his horse around, put the reins in its teeth and rode his horse straight into the angry bunch of Missourians firing his guns. He shot some of them down and drove the rest away without suffering a scratch. So that's a really good thing for a religious guy to do, is to be able to get away with something batshit crazy. Like that doesn't then lead to... But Dave, they didn't understand that Joseph Smith slept and saw something. Thanks to the mobs, about 1200 homeless church members now lived in wagons or tents or... So what point are you looking... In their own caves they dug into the hillside. What point are you looking at your significant mother like... What the fuck are we here? Get the fuck out of here. Did we make the right call? I think we fucked up. I mean look, I'd like what he's saying, but I also don't want to live in a cave. Hey, we had a house in New York and now we've dug a hole inside of a hill. We dug a hole inside of a hill. And now we live in a hill. That's your son playing with a mud teddy bear he made. I gotta go to the bathroom. I'm gonna use the rocks. Governor Lilburn W. Boggs from Missouri issued what became known as the extermination order. Probably not bug related. It's stating, quote, the Mormons must be treated as enemies and must be exterminated or driven from the state if necessary for the public peace. The order was not rescinded until 1976. Too soon. So it was, he legalized Mormon hunting. Yeah, that's very... That's what he did. It's gotta be an interesting day. Soon after... Because like if they said today like, you know, like you, like if they said today that you could legally go kill people, you have to at least think for a second like... It doesn't sound right. It doesn't sound right, but wouldn't you be like, I mean, I could legally kill somebody. I mean, that's kind of interesting. It's kind of cool. I don't want to, but it's a good piece of the sleeve. She always comes back around on you. It never, never goes one way. No, you can kill your way out of that syndrome. Soon after, Joseph Smith was captured and sent to Liberty Jail and the Mormons crossed from Missouri into Illinois to escape the extermination order. Order was Joseph's most regular visitor. He would empty the chamber pot. What a guy. I mean, who empties into the guy's piss pot? Yeah. Passed edible food and water through the bars and he had even snuck in several pry bars and a couple of shovels to assist a possible escape. Now, I don't know what's going on in this jail and how they don't see that he's got bars and shovels in there, but look under the cot. Well, you also, I would imagine in a jailbreak scenario, you're in or you're out. I mean, yeah. So it's not, you shouldn't be sneaking in materials just to be like, I just want you to know if you want to leave whenever. Just in case. Dig, dig, dig. Just in case. Dig, dig, dig. That's for you. We'll see on the outside. If not, no big deal. If you feel like things want to change. These cars are really dumb. They're clearly stupid. He continued sneaking stuff in until the day his shovel was knocked loose out of Porter's coat and hit the floor clang clang while the guards stood shocked staring at the fallen tool Porter fled out the open door and that was his last visit to the jail. Over time, the guards at Liberty jail finally became convinced of just as innocence and they allowed him to escape and even let him buy one of the guards horses. Okay. The saints began buying swamp infested land and built the city of Navu, Illinois. In 1840, Joseph Smith was asked asked Rockwell to be one of his Navu bodyguards and Porter accepted and replied, your enemies are my enemies, Joseph. All right. The Mormons built up their new colony again, clearing ground and building cabins and were granted a charter for their city of Navu, allowing them a city council on municipal court and a militia quote at the disposal of the mayor in executing the laws and ordinances of the city and shall be entitled to their portion of public arms. The state of Illinois gave them three cannons, 250 rifles. Because Missouri authorities and bounty hunters were after Joseph Smith, the Porter Rockwell was his main bodyguard and prophesied that former Missouri governor Lilburn Boggs would quote, died by violent hands at the end of the year and that the destroying angel will do it by the right hand of his power. It's a pretty destroying angel was Porter's little nickname. Oh, well, that's an easy prophecy to make real. Yeah, it's I think you're just saying my guy's going to kill him. Yeah, they really put a lot of bells and whistles on that. They certainly did. They really just that pickup. A lot of bells and whistles. February 1842, two years after Governor Boggs had left office, Porter traveled back to Independence, Missouri with his wife, pregnant with their fourth child, child who wanted to visit her parents there. He got a job working with horses under the assumed name of James Brown. Wow. You did not know this is going to become a music story. No, I can't wait to see. Now this starts the true that he was the hardest working man in Mormonism. That's what we're going to get at. Okay. Then someone shot through the window of the home of Governor Boggs, who is no longer Governor Boggs. He's ex-governor Boggs. But someone shoots through the window. Boggs was hit by large buckshot of four places. Two balls, balls were lodged in his skull, another lodged in his neck and a fourth entered his throat where Boggs swallowed it. Weird choice. Yeah. It's going to spit it out or swallow it, whatever. Boggs was severely injured. I think we already, I didn't have to say that because that seems like. Yeah, no, and he said the two balls went in the back of his head. Several doctors, Boggs brother being among them, pronounce Boggs as good as dead, at least one newspaper ran out of bituary. But everyone's great surprise Boggs not only survived, he gradually improved. It's a shame because if he was in that weird limbo where his brain wasn't really working, the tour that he could have gone on, the money. Oh my God. Yeah. Parading him around the country. A headless monster. For nickels. May 21st, the Quincy Harold Wigg newspaper reported, there are several rumors in circulation, one of which throws the crime upon the Mormons from the fact we suppose that Mr. Boggs was governor at the time and no small degree instrumental in driving them from the state. Some Mormons saw the assassination attempt positively. I would say all. Yeah. I would say all. Let's be honest. Okay. An anonymous contributor to the Wasp, which was a pro Mormon newspaper. Killing it with the names. Are papers a wasp? Where are the daughters of Zion? Meet the Danites. They're the police. The wasp wrote on May 28th that Boggs is undoubtedly killed according to a report, but who did the noble deed remains to be found out? Noble deed. So it's pretty fair and balanced. Yeah, they seem like they're taking a side. Yeah, okay. That's cool. I love that a guy who's no longer in power got shot through a window, but okay. I guess that's noble. I mean, the whole idea of noble just changed quite a bit. You know, it's the valor of it all is because two shots on the back of the head just. It's a beautiful thing. Just very noble. Very noble. A recently excommunicated Mormon, John C. Bennett made a number of controversial allegations that implemented the prophet and porter in the assassination attempt. writing quote, in 1841, Joe Smith predicted or prophesied in a public congregation in Nauvoo that Boggs should die by violent hands within one year from one or two months prior to the attempted assassination of Mr. Boggs. Mr. P. Rockwell left Nauvoo for parts unknown. I was then on terms of close intimacy with Joe Smith and asked him where Rockwell had gone, gone, said the prophet, gone to fulfill the prophecy. He yelled Rockwell returned to Nauvoo the day before the report of the assassination reached there. So I think that's circumstantial. Yeah, we're calling it a prophecies really over the top. Yeah. Pushing it. Bennett had been excommunicated from the church for adultery and unauthorized. That's fucked up. You can't fuck someone. You can't cheat on your wife. We're going to go kill the ex-governor. But even though there was polygamy, you had to get permission to polygamy, polygamize. Why? Why? You had to get permission to marry people even though there was polygamy. So you couldn't just go around fucking and sucking. What the hell fucking, so go get your fucking fuck license. There's rules. You lazy prick. There's rules to it. Yeah, but that's fine. Jump through the hoop and then go fuck whoever. I thought he wasn't jumping through the hoop, so he got kicked out. There are rules to all, there's rules he could have followed. But it's like when an athlete will test positive for Ritalin or something and then they'll get suspended, it's like just go get a fucking prescription and you can do whatever the fuck you want. Yeah, I agree. Thank you. Bennett used his trust. I'll be running for local profit. Bennett used his trusted position as a doctor to allay the fears of women he attempted to seduce, telling him that he could cause abortions by administering medicine should they become pregnant. That's a great, I mean at least for me when I was single, it was a great way to talk ladies into bed as hey, do you want to sleep with me? You're at the bar. Abortions are illegal in California. You're at the bar. You're totally legal. I know a guy that can punch you in the stomach. Do you want to fuck? You know, I always think in the first 10 minutes you want to get out where you're at with abortion and how easy it is for you to make it happen. Women want to hear that. They want to hear like how will you take care of this before you get to bed. Yeah, and I just want, that'll be fine. I just want to let you know that I could easily perform an abortion. Oh, Jesus. While Bennett was mayor, he was caught in private sexual relations with women in the city. He told the women in the practice, which he termed spiritual wifery, that it was sanctioned by God. Oh man. Wow. You really got a what like? Wow. I mean, if there is anything up there or if we are apart, like, yeah, we look like a bunch of assholes. Well, just what I mean, the anger, like, because. Oh, yeah, you're he's just sitting up there going, no, no. You fuck. I did not say that. Nobody. I didn't say that. So, um, I talked to God last night. I'm supposed to fuck you. God's like, God's like, you need to be closer to the doctor and let the doctor inside of you and then also that he can do it as many times as he want. If you get a baby and you the doctor can take it out. Don't worry about that. Well, handle the boy. This is a quote. This is a quote from God. Let the doctor fuck you. And I mean, he was serious. And if anything happens, you know, doctor, go and take care of it. And again, I just want to let you know how easy I can make an abortion happen. Girl. Lady. Girl. Let me take that baby out. You don't know how good I am at abortions. Oh, you don't even know the new standup album by Dave Antley. And affidavit was issued by Boggs accusing Porter of shooting him. And the reward was posted. All right. So now they're now they're going after Rockwell. They got to saying he's an assassin. Yep. Rockwell decided to leave town while Smith stayed and ordered his militia if he was captured to quote without delay, regardless of life or death, rescue me out of their hands. Before Rockwell fled his life left with him. But their children as was Mormon custom stayed within the church. So they were sent to live with Porter's mother who was also in Navu. Okay. Porter went to Pennsylvania where a fellow Mormon took him in and he wrote a letter to Joseph Smith for him because Porter couldn't write. Right. I am requested by friend Porter Rockwell to inform you that he is in Philadelphia. His health is good, but his spirits are depressed. Caused by his being unable to obtain employment of any kind, he will wait here until he hears from you. Answer this as soon as received. After not hearing from Joseph, Porter headed to New Jersey and still unable to find work decided to return to Illinois in March as he was leaving a riverboat in St. Louis. He was arrested. Okay. As a result of the attempted murder, a newsman dubbed Rockwell the destroying angel. Hmm. That's when everyone else started calling him that. Rockwell later threatened the writer for coming up with an awesome nickname. Very, very religious. Another side to Porter's character emerged during his trip to the Missouri jail. The driver of the stagecoach was so drunk that he twice crashed it and instead of escaping, Porter with his knowledge of horses and carts did the gentlemanly thing and repaired and rescued both the vehicle both times. Okay. We're gonna put this back together. You're gonna take me to jail. Okay. Do whatever you want. I'm wasted, but your plan seems shitty. Oh, shit. Your hair is long. That's the horse, sir. He was then placed in jail and soon underwent a sham trial. The courthouse was crowded and a mob of 20 men were armed with hickory clubs. While in court a pack of boys around 10 to 12 years of age attacked Porter kicking and punching him. What? Despite finding no crime against him, the magistrate committed him to prison for safe preservation, but it wasn't really a real trial. Safe preservation? Yeah, they were just saying- They were like, you're getting beat up by people, so we're gonna keep you safe. That 10-year-old just hit you in the face. Go to jail. You keep getting beat up by in the court. I can't imagine what'll happen outside of the court. So we're gonna put you in the jail. All right. A family lived in the corner of the jail and the woman once in a while used to send out a little black girl with a small basket. Okay. She would pass a big Missouri whip stock with a piece of twine up to the prison window, which Porter tied to the basket and dragged it through the window. Porter recalls of his time in prison, I made a pin hook and tied to the twine and baited with a chunk of corn dodger, hard enough to knock a Negro down with and stuck it out of the graded window and fished for pukes. A druggatory term for Missourians. When passerbys came along, they would stop and gawk at me a while and pass on. So he's trying to hit people in the head with something out of the prison window. That's how he's feeling his time. That's a game. That's what he does. He hits people in the head or walk him by. I got to get it. A preacher who had a family of girls lived on the opposite side of the street. The girls would watch and laugh and call out and ask me if I got any bites. And I replied, no, but some glorious nibbles. So he's a moron. Yeah. Porter did attempt to escape once, but when his cellmate got caught, he walked back to the jail and told them where he had thrown the key that he stole from the guard. How do you get? Yeah. Okay. After almost a year in prison, he finally had an actual trial, the real trial. All right. The Grand Jury was unable to find sufficient evidence to convict him because there is no evidence other than a guy who said he went there. He said that. And they were not convinced by Porter's statement to the court. I never shot anybody. If I shoot, they get shot. He's still alive, ain't he? So I didn't do it. It's a fair point. He didn't die. He ain't dead, right? No. I mean, he got four bullets in him, two in the head, one in the neck, places that would kill a man. But he's alive. But he's alive. Right. So I didn't do it. That's another dude. Right. Well, he was, however, jailed for the attempted jailbreak and sentenced to five minutes in prison in the county jail. I mean, what? Who the fuck? He got a time out. Yeah, it is a time out. You got a time out. That's a tour. Yeah. Okay, just go and sit right there and we will keep time. I hope he did like the little tick marks on the cell wall for a minute. One minute more. One minute, two minutes. Wait, where are we at? Shit, man. I've been in here so many minutes, I can't even keep the minutes straight. Porter, you've been done for two minutes. How long is this? Is it five minutes yet? It's been four minutes. I can't take it. Man, I'm going to fuck my wife when I get out of here. Out of jail and with his shoes and tatters, he had to walk most of the way from Missouri to Nauvoo. His feet did get some relief when he hired a man for 75 cents to carry him for three days of the journey. So I don't know who's the weirder person. I really who is I assume it's like one of those big dumb guys, you know, the guys that are in the movies like, yeah, yeah, sure. I'll carry you. How far they call me. Mungo Mungo carry Porter. You got 75 cent. I take you over four heels. That's a four hill money amount. Mungo pick up Porter. Take him Porter love Mungo. Mungo love Porter. All right. I got to roll man when Porter arrived in Nauvoo in 1842. Can we picture that mungo is with him for the rest of the story? Oh my god, that'd be tremendous. How can mungo not be? It feels like like a Disney film. Mungo and Porter. Mungo and Porter. Why not? I do like the idea that there's a time when he's just like legal giants were Romeo Street and for quarters you can fucking go where you want. I need to be carried to St. Louis. My name Big Larry. Hey Big Larry, we're going to get a lot great you big dumb shit. Here's a dollar bill, okay? Take me to New York, fuckface. When he arrived in Nauvoo in 1842 it was Christmas day and he went straight to the Prophet's mansion where a party was underway. Oh good. Quote, a man with a long beard and even longer shaggy hair apparently drunk came in and acted like a Missourian. A scuffle ensued and then the Prophet had an opportunity to see the stranger's face. To his great surprise and joy he discovered his old friend, Orrin Porter Rockwell. The party came to order while Rockwell related in detail his experiences and sufferings in Missouri. It was here that the Prophet proclaimed, Orrin Porter Rockwell, so long as ye shall remain loyal and true to you the faith, you need fear no enemy. Cut not thy hair and no bullet or blade can harm thee. So basically- He's a Superman. Joseph Smith had read the story of Samson in the Bible and not being a man to have a lot of creativity, he just met with that one. Good. This prophecy would come to inspire its own folklore. To the newspapers Porter was the destroying angel of Mormondom, the chief of the Danites and regarded as one of the pleasantest murderers you could ever meet. However, the prophecy did nothing for Porter's voice. It was naturally high pitched. Oh man. And when it became emotional, it raised to a high falsetto, or an unnerving squeak as some called it. I'm gonna kill you motherfucker! As he's fucking limping around. Hey, bitch, you wanna die tonight? Oh God. Oh God. What you saying about Joseph Smith? How do you believe in God if you sound like that and you can't? I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. You can't walk, right? Porter settled in Nauvoo for some time and set up a saloon I'm having the best time. This is great! Don't get me angry! You wouldn't wanna see me angry. He set up a saloon in the mansion house of Joseph Smith. What? He set up. Isn't that one of the things? Yes. So what the fuck? But he got to do whatever he wanted So he set up a saloon. I got to do it. I wanted and they were like you do whatever you want He's like really I can do whatever I want. I'm starting to do whatever you want. I'm starting to think Porter's not a Mormon So I Don't think he believes not a Mormon. I don't think he's a buddy It's a buddy. He's not a Mormon. He's what we'd call bad cop It seems very un-mormon like to set up a saloon in the profits house I can do whatever I want cuz of the murder Wait a minute. How come I got kicked out for fucking that girl and this guy set up a saloon in your house Set up a saloon. It's not a wet bar It's not a decanter. This is a saloon in 1844 a rift developed between Joseph Smith and some of his close associates Smith Had them excommunicated. Oh god. I really thought you're gonna say executed No, the men then published a newspaper with a lot of polygamy talk and Smith's response Was to have the papers press destroyed now. So he's not only in the town He's not just the religious leader, but he's also like mayor like his official title So he's as the mayor he says to do that right so, you know, it's a This did not go over well with the locals Militias were mobilized in the end Smith and his brother Hiram Hiram Smith were arrested for treason They were then killed by by a mob while in custody in the city of Carthage, Illinois Okay, Joseph Smith and Hiram Smith are dead in 1846 religious tensions reached their peak and in 1848 mobs burned the Latter-day Saint Temple in Navu So shit's uh, it's not good. Yeah shit's hit the bottoming out. Yeah, Joseph's gone There's a guy named Hiram who was fired Yeah the death of the prophet turned Porter as He was known aggressive and even belligerent So he went up a notch from shooting Ex-governors and opening saloons into in in the house of the prophet to now being belligerent. He's super Porter He ban his first wife and children and then took the wife of Amos Davis at gunpoint Wow, that's uh, I mean he's getting you. I'm taking that one, but she's my wife, sir Not no more. Yeah, you seen Clint Eastwood movies But I mean it is better than the abortion pickup. Yeah line I agree with that. You know just have a gun. I want I want hey That's my wife now. I want you so bad. I'm gonna put this gun in your husband's face Don't them before woman might find that back in the day that might be like a god look at look at the valor. Holy shit Off the new couple went and within two months. He was in the Navu temple escorted by mrs. Davis, but which Three days later Porter's first wife was sealed to Alpheus Cutler in the same temple. So it all worked out It's pretty gross. Well, you know marriages happen things Sure work. They don't work sure in the chaos that ensued after the death of the prophet The Mormons often engaged in battles with mobs of non Mormons In September 16th 1845 Rockwell was hastily deputized by the sheriff of Hancock County, Illinois Not a good idea. The sheriff was a non Mormon, but was friendly to the Mormons. Okay, it's a lot of politics going on Yeah, the sheriff Was being chased by an anti-mormon mob led by Lieutenant Frank Warrell Okay, who had been in charge of the militia unit that failed to protect Joseph Smith when he was murdered good. Yeah They have a good track record. Yep as soon as Porter was deputized He fired a rifle ball into Warrell's gut whoa a Witness said of the victim he jumped three or four feet into the air and rolled away from his horse dead Jesus, okay, you're a deputy. Okay, go boom. Oh Deputy yeah, sorry legal fucking asshole This incident did nothing to improve relations between the Mormons and their adversaries. Why not? I don't know Weird a few days later a mob of Mormons captured a man suspected of burning Mormon homes and castrated him Jesus sliced his throat caught off one of his ears and shot him two or three times. Okay, honestly, I mean overkill Yeah, literally castration was enough for you. I could well they could have killed him It's bad. They were all the ear all those things I described were bad. Yeah, but If the ultimate if it's the end if the end game is death, let's just get to it I'm not gonna argue with you. I need to remove a man's testicles the moment and his ear well Because you to Amy that feels like it was last minute Just kind of one of the heat of the moment Let's get the air to balls were so fun The Mormons realized you know if you cut up guys balls off You got to pull them down like one guys to hold the sack and the other guys to slice or you could do it yourself But you do have to hold the sack Well, somebody's got to watch the guy because you can't just you can't just cut off balls with a knife Without the sack being taught and ready to go Oh, dude, you have to pull it down and saw it or else you're just like slapping at drapes with a sword Somebody just dropped their sandwich listen Mormons realized they had to move again to to avoid further persecution The Prophet's successor was Brigham Young who stated that God inspired him to gather his people and to head west to Utah Porter agreed to be a bodyguard for the new Prophet and when the Mormons began their exodus He was given the important task of carrying messages between those already on the way and those who had not yet departed The logic seems to have been that he would be hard to stop along the way So I think they were going with the idea that he couldn't be hurt I think there was still like they really that one can't be injured and then But if you're the Prophet wouldn't you say I can't be injured and then you Couldn't be killed like wouldn't you also say that about yourself? Yeah But so he's going from Utah to Illinois. Yeah, he's going back and forth. Okay While delivering a message Porter was captured by Gentiles in Navu and When the Illinois Sheriff frisked Rockwell, he discovered that Porter was carrying enough firepower To get off 71 pistol rounds before he would have to reload whoa That would have meant he had 10 to 12 loaded guns Jesus Plus he had Ramrod's Nipple pricks wadding nipple pricks. I don't know it's something that's something I do with a gun and Shot which meant he was carrying about 40 pounds of steel Jesus Limp he intimidated the witnesses and they let him go He also had a lip. What were they intimidated by I can't imagine. Oh, there's this one and this one. Oh, oh This one or clunk. Here's another one clunk clunk. Sorry. I just spilled my nipple pricks Oh, but forgot this one. I keep my salvagous Here one go more nipple pricks whatever these are There's some brown things. Here's some more nipple pricks Porter then became one of the pioneers Brigham Young brought along to search for the site of the new Zion Hmm. I like how the new Zion is really dictated by people wanting to murder them over Yeah, you know, you think it would be a little more Well, the new Zion is in a place where people are burning their houses down. Yeah, right exactly The new Zion is kind of wherever anyone will just leave them alone. Yeah, is Zion where you rest your head is Zion Porter did much of the hunting and scouting on the trip during the trip some crow Indians stole 50 head of cattle From the expedition. God these so Porter went out by himself and got eight of the cows back Jesus During the main Mormon Exodus travelers were assigned specific tasks William Clayton was appointed to company scribe I was expected to record an accurate description of their journey and the distance they traveled each day after three weeks Clayton drew tired grew tired of Personally counting the revolutions of a wagon wheel and computing the day's distance by multiplying that count by the wheels circumference So they had that guy who was traveling with them who they made count the turns of the wheel all day. So Could you imagine that your job? No, just counting the fucking no No is the answer After consulting with horses, I'd be like, I'm gonna find a different religion. Okay, so I guess there were 40 or 800 turns I didn't I don't want to be a Mormon anymore. Yeah, this is too much. I thought I was gonna get a saloon I thought I could be a Danite, but I'm counting wheels. Yeah Okay, so fuck you guys later after consulting with Orson Pratt and accomplished mathematician Clayton designed a mechanism consisting of a set of wooden cog wheels attached to the hub of the wagon wheel With the mechanism counting a recording by position the revolutions of the wheel. Okay, clain's design Was called the rotometer and it is the basis for most modern Adometers, all right about that shit. All right, little side track. There we go in 1847 Salt Lake City was barren and the Mormons arrived with very little It was a desperate time and eventually an expedition was sent to California to try to purchase much needed supplies With Porter along as a scout. Okay The planning of this expedition was utterly botched and in the end it wasted a lot of money without bringing in much in the way of food Porter at Parker company with the commander of the expedition to go on another expedition to California to collect Tiths from the Californian Mormons tiths. I think cash. Okay Rockwell apparently tried panning for gold But after finding the hard work of panning gold distasteful he opened three saloons good. That's easier He learned quickly that miners were not stingy when it came to alcohol When Porter hauled whiskey from Sacramento by mule train He would arrive at hilltop above the town and blare his bugle. Okay His partner at the tavern would then fire a shot in the air It's all sounding really normal business sure classic business. Yeah, just like this is what what they do with a car dealer Shoot. Yeah. Yeah, no when they have the sale or something like that. Yeah, they'll Hornin shoot hornin shoot. Yeah, hornin shoot. Yeah, of course, obviously we're saying the same thing Gold Panners along the river knew it was time to celebrate as time passed the patrons were getting a little too rough Support took off and returned to Utah For protection he kept loaded pistols and a trained dog at his side when he traveled on horseback The dog rode behind him with its paws on its shoulders on his shoulders like that. He's got the dog on his shoulder like that It's a great fucking sign coming on. Yeah, like holy shit. It's a dog coming and then it would be oh, no There's got a dog on a guy. I thought you were a floating dog now that guy rolls into town. Yeah, I'm listening to the profit shit Yeah, whatever that guy says guys gotta guys riding a horse and he's got a dog fucking tandem and behind him Huh, you got a I'm a little I'm a little more open. Yeah, I'm totally open And and the dog would also go and search the trail for trouble ahead And it was trained to lick his face instead of barking when it returned Okay, which was the silent dog alarm. He an adorable alarm is one of those silent dog alarm Oh, that is well you can now get it home Depot. Yeah In 1849 Porter was named deputy Marshall for the provincial state of desert Is that another desert was their ideal sort of state? So if you go look at old name of desert, you will see it's a biblical you will see like the state that like carves up what large portions of Utah and like maybe Arizona and certainly a lot of Nevada like it's this giant thing that they wanted is their country sure their compound The state of desert was a provincial state of the United States proposed in 1849 by settlers from the Church of Jesus of Latter-day Saints in Salt Lake City The provincial state existed for slightly over two years, but was never recognized by the US government. Why I can't imagine why Okay, no, it seems it seems like it's good. Yeah, it seems like there'd be no issues It's one more star in 1850. He was appointed a Utah deputy sheriff for life With territory white jurisdiction. I mean terrible There is a story of a horse thief that that stole one of the best horses in the valley after Porter found the thief on the horse The thief pointed his gun right at Porter Porter was faster though and killed him first a Reward of gold was offered by the horse's owner But reporter refused the reward seeing it was just in the line of duty. Hey, that's how I do my job You don't got to pay me. I don't need no tip. I don't need your money. I need your money. You got a beer. Yeah, I know Oh I thought I'm gonna go let my dog get the horse Porter also led a volunteer company of 16 men to Go against the Ute Indians To settle a contract dispute under the command of Porter the posse track down Ten Utes and immediately charged the Indians were soon taken prisoner and were being taken back to settlements Oddly the posse failed to disarm them Hmm No damn them said Porter we will make them pack their own guns Questeramble I feel like I Feel like not a lot of thinking went in that decision. No, should we take their guns? Hell. No, those are heavy No, yeah, make make them carry their heavy cumbersome guns Wait, wait, you see a problem with this plan. I'm in charge The Indians soon fought back what because they still had guns Killing one of the posse and all but four of them escaped. Okay, that didn't go well No, well you learned a lesson there take the guns take the guns you take the guns the heaviness doesn't matter You take the goddamn guns port and some of the posse took the four remaining Ute prisoners of Skoll Valley Rockwell decided then it was unwise to turn the four men loose quote to commit more Depredations and perhaps shed the blood of some useful citizen. Uh-huh So the prisoners were quote sacrificed to the natural instincts of self-defense Okay, they murdered them in the desert and buried them That's interesting. So if they just taken away the fucking guns in the first place, I don't agree, you know No, no, no, I still think if you really look at it, it's a good plan These heathens who if you give if you take prisoner in a battle They will try to kill you if you give them things to kill you with that's how crazy The again the nerve of these Indians just the fucking also when you say contract dispute I think that anytime you hear that when it comes to Native Americans what the dispute is that they are not signing the Contract or or they're holding to their part of the yeah, or yeah, or they're just like I know it's this contract says we get half And you get half right but now we want all and we want you to have none, okay? in 1815 disputing this contract Disputin listen to them in 1854 Rockwell married Mary and Neff who was about half his age, all right She borne a daughter in March 1855 and another in August 1856 soon after the birth of that first child came yet another side to Porter's character He had until then worn his hair very long, but during a trip to California. He met the widow of one of Joseph Smith's brothers Who had lost her hair from typhoid fever? Okay? Having nothing else to do for her Porter cut his hair and made her a wig to replace her missing hair Now sweet thought I am guessing that it looked really awesome. Yeah, because This guy clearly knew how to make a nice wig absolutely everything you've said is leading us to the moment of the perfect wig Yeah, well, this is where he goes on to be a hairdresser. Oh good. Okay. I miss hairdressers Kind of zoe hands it out a little bit now Porter then went into hiding For some time until his hair grew back fearing that he might be able to be killed without his hair what? Mm-hmm? Do you remember when Joseph Smith said the thing about his long hair and the Samson business? He literally the Bible the Samson story from Bible, but he's also invincible this Samson story from the yes I okay. Okay. All right. That's what he's doing now. It's all a do-over This is this lady. I just miss the new Jesus. It's all a do-over. So he's the new Samson. It's all they're just redoing I'm it all it all makes sense. They're playing Bible. I just hope this woman really appreciates what he went through I agree. He didn't just cut his hair. He wouldn't leave his house Porter also claimed that after he cut his hair he could no longer control his urge to drink and swear Like he could before fuck. I can't stop with the fucking whiskey now Well, now that my goddamn fucking shit of hair is gone All I can fucking do is sit here and shit-ass drink this fucking with God and I'm also swearing I mean, it's really fucked up. I'm listening to myself right now like what the fuck am I doing like what the fuck is my fucking problem? You know what? I mean, yeah, I'd love some of that whiskey give me a smoke your fucking piece of shit Anyway, listen, I cut my fucking hair. I cut my fucking hair. I Feel different. I feel different. Okay different As Porter's legend grew so did the interest from Glent gunslingers who thought they could kill the invincible Mormon Once he reportedly dodged the rapid fire of several outlaws then returned fire with deadly accuracy a witness recalled when the smoke cleared he shook himself like a great shaggy bear and several pistol balls of various calibers fell from the folds of his ill-fitting homespun coat Another time a young gunslinger got the job on Rockwell say your prayers he demanded Walk well Rockwell replied you wouldn't try and shoot a man without a cap on your pistol Would you now it was common at the time for the priming cap to fall off a Ball pistol so while while riding a horse so because they're on a horse is jostling around the the priming cap would fall from then The gun couldn't shoot or maybe it could but something would happen. So anyway, the gun was just a social faux pas Yeah, the gun why I think it would make the Either it makes the gun have a problem or it can't shoot but either way you don't want to shoot it Okay, the gunslinger made the mistake of looking down at his gun and then he was shot off his saddle by a porter All right, so he had some smarts. Yeah One day a pint size, but very drunk Irishman named Flanagan Costed Rockwell in the street and asked him Irish accents are in 60% of the dollars. We just are able to find it when Rockwell said yes Flanagan replied Well, then by God here the man whose underwear returned to bullets and I've been called by God to put it to the proof revelation Flanigan Flanigan Flanigan calm down Yeah, I know it's a good porter Flanigan produced a large pistol and stuck it in Rockwell's mouth The Irishman began to proclaim many and varied obscenities concerning Porter Go he sucked that fucking gun sucked that gun Fuck it. Yeah, I like it. Yeah. Oh shit. Yeah. Oh, that's a fucking look at that Hey, oh, you gotta purge him out you do. Oh, no, it'd be so sweet. Oh It's like the whiskey going in there work the handle a little bit other hand. Okay, there you go play with the handle Oh, that's a gun fill up with the handle. Well, you suck it. Oh Oh I'm gonna shoot Shoot I'm gonna shoot. Oh, it's a leprechaun. Wait, what wait? Last but on this occasion Porter did not seem to have the total and complete confidence of prophecy And he endured the ten minute drunken rant of the Irishman without replying the Irishman then let him go That's how you beat an Irish guy Oh God I guess I'm tired. I can't even remember what I fucking came over here in the first place Oh My god in your mouth the fuck are we talking about it in there? Oh you a fucking apology. I do fuck me on my 80. Oh lord In 1857 the president of the United States James Buchanan thought There was a Mormon rebellion against the United States So he ordered an army to come to Utah to fight against them and to replace Brigham Young as governor But there wasn't any rebellion So Brigham Young ordered Porter Rockwell to slow them down without killing any soldiers Porter succeeded by visiting the government camp at night silently tapping pins out of their wagon wheels and scattering their horses I Mean it's a bad movie. Yeah, it is slapstick in 1858 the conflict ended when they found out The Mormons were loyal to the US government and Brigham Young accepted President Buchanan's apology for his invitation This would be known in political circles as Buchanan's Blunder Hmm. Yeah During the time Porter was involved in an attack on a half dozen Californians known as the Aiken party The party consisted of six professional gamblers from California Coming from the easy pickings coming for the easy pickings of the rubes in Utah Yeah, my heart my heart skip the beat on that one. I hear you They were attacked west of Salt Lake and four of them killed instantly the other two apparently escaped and were never heard from again however, the testimony of Alice Lam indicates They were killed in their bodies thrown into a large spring near the road She adds that the party was only stunned by the first shot when Porter Rockwell stepped up placed a pistol to one of the gamblers ears and Said this never misses and literally blew his brains out. Oh So he just wrote he just came up behind them Fucking blew one of their heads off and then shot the rest of them. There's never misses boom. That's a good town It's a good line the Mormons believed that the party of gamblers carried with them quote powders to drug Mormon women And that they deserve death anyhow, okay, so they were much of Cosby's rolling in. Yeah a fucking team of Cosby's As relations between the Mormons and the US government improved Porter began to look for a way to pick up money He started with a male carrying service Sure, I mean what else? Yeah, we need more of those and also opened up the Rockwell's hot springs Brewery hotel. Wow. He's really he knows he knows where that butter But that certainly does that would be the first brewery established in Utah Porter brewed beer and a special type of Mormon whiskey called Valley Tan whiskey Mark Twain reviewed the whiskey in his Wild West travel log roughing it Vanitane is a kind of whiskey or first cousin to it is of Mormon invention and Manufactured only in Utah tradition says it is made of imported fire and brimstone Indeed the Mormon curated Valley Tan was soon sweeping the West by storm with prominent figures like Twain and Rockwell Drunkingly singing its praises praises well, of course he is because he owns it Yeah, Porter also sold Valley Tan whiskey for a dollar a bottle which it seems like a lot for back then Maybe I'm crazy. Maybe it's not but it's And if he was in the right mood he would entertain travelers with tales of the outlaws He had trailed or the horse thieves he had captured It was Porter's fame as a mountain man that attracted the explorer Richard Francis Burton to him in 1860 on his trip across America to the West Coast Burton stopped to explore Salt Lake City and its environments he stayed with a bishop in a Village near the city one evening and the bishop invited Porter Rockwell to dinner Porter sent for a bottle of Valley Tan whiskey and he and Burton drank shot for shot into the night With Portlor outlining steps that Burton should take for safety during his passage to Sacramento Porter advised Burton to carry a loaded double-barreled shotgun sleep in a dark camp Never trust appearances and to avoid the main trail where the white Indians prayed on travelers The white Indians white Indians were the nickname given white robbers who disguised themselves as Indians to pass off the blame It's fucked up, but if you're called white Indians, it's not working. No, it doesn't seem like it is. Yeah It was this night. I'm a regular Indian. What are you talking about? It was this night that the That Porter's use of the word wheat was first recorded While the explorer was drinking with poor Porter. He heard him say wait because he enjoyed the contents of his glass Rockwell is also said to have used the phrase old wait in the mill in referring to an easy task and That saddle is wheat apparently meeting. It was good Wheat meant sweet and it was also known to scream wait as a war cry okay, so What didn't wheat mean? I think Think he might be a moron. Yeah Did you ever see the stand the movie read the book the guys? Oh, yeah, yeah Yeah, oh moon. He's like that guy I'm gonna start saying wheat more in 1862 Porter played an integral role in what is known as the Bear River massacre as a white friend of the shoe shone Porter knew the location of the Indian camp and his reporter to have led Cal for units of the second regiment California volunteer Calvary to its location So that's cool. He was friends of them, but he's like, yeah, we can go kill him Sure the red they're good friends the regiment showed up and commence firing and the Indians were slaughtered like wild rabbits Seeing themselves vastly outnumber the shoe shone began jumping into the freezing river in an attempt to escape No one was spared men women and children were killed Chief bear hunter was known as the leader by the soldiers. He was kicked and tortured and finally because he would not cry out Had a burning hot rifle bayonet run through his ears. Oh my god 450 men women and children. Oh my god So he did that he's part of that he helped out with that I can't get over how Running bear no bear Chief bear hunter chief bear hunter. Yeah, he took a hot poker between the ears Fucking hey Porter's infamy continue to grow Indians feared him saying that it was impossible to kill him cowboys and outlaws sang songs about him around cap fires newspapers reported crediting him with 40 or so murders Life then seemed to calm down for some time for Porter and it appears that he mostly sold alcohol living quietly as a man in that Occupation although he once threw one of his assistant bartenders through a window Yeah, that's game. Yeah, that makes sense. I gotta give this wait He also managed to get a steak in a silver mine that became the successful Rockwell mining company. Oh Dude, I thought like in my head. I pictured meat. I was like steak in a mine Was like he opened like a steak house in a bar. He was an adventurous man. Have the canary taste at first He also was still a lawman because he's a lawman for life. Yeah, no, you can't shake it now as an east bone eastbound stage coach Made its way from Riverbed to Simpson Springs carrying 40,000 in gold It's driver spotted the body of a man lying in the sparse stage by the side of the road He stopped the coach while the shotgun guard climbed down to see what happened. This is the stupidest Idea that anyone has ever had just keep going. Okay, it's not if it is well, it's not when the guard rolled the body over He suddenly found himself looking into the business end of a cocked six shoot The drivers made to throw down the box after which he and the guard minus their guns were told to get going The robbery was ported at Simpson Springs and the following day Porter Rockwell was on the trail He found the tracks of a hidden horse which the outlaws had used to carry the heavy loot He tracked it southward to a camp near the West Trinic Mountains Rockwell observed the camp for two days until he saw the outlaw walk into the cedars several times each time of returning with a Sack of coins stolen from the stage Rockwell arrested him and after loading the loot took the outlaw to point lookout station where he entrusted the prisoner To a stable boy while he slept after three days and nights on the trail Hmm makes a lot of really shitty decisions not a good call with the criminals. He has yeah, I Mean he you're a stable boy. You want to watch this guy? I'm actually pretty unstable. I I like to be around horses because people make me feel weird. All right. You're perfect. Don't let this guy fuck with anything I feel weird. There you go Rockwell slept the outlaw escaped What I know But the Marshall was soon on his trail again and followed him all the way to Montana where he killed him All right, finally, it was only a job It was only after rock row returned from the chase that he learned the outlaw had only time to dig up part of the stage coach Loot before he was arrested a sack containing 10,000 and gold was still missing Even to this day people search for it. Oh, wow near that area where he was No one that area right now. It just has to have so many psychos there with metal detectors Fuck man if I can just catch a break I'm a 1869 the vice president of the United States Shulier Colfax my favorite VP came to Salt Lake City and gave a speech He condemned the practice of polygamy and the generally Exclusive non-American policy of Mormon leaders. He also called Porter a killer Porter objective Yeah, how dare he and yelled out I never killed anyone. I didn't need killing. That's a good defense He was then said to occasionally yell that out throughout the entire speech wait So after one time he just kept throughout the rest of the speech Porter Porter Porter, okay Relax Porter Porter Porter Porter Porter Porter Porter Porter Porter Porter Porter Porter Good Porter Porter For the love of Porter wow wait Wait I took a fourth wife who was his former housekeeper. She was 34 years 59. God. It's really just they made three girls Oh Christ with the the parts I know how it works one died after birth. This was pretty standard Porter was never brought to account for any of his shit while breaking man was alive because their breaking man was Yeah, this is the fucking guy. Yeah after young died, however Rockwell was charged with the murder of John Aiken and arrested in 1877 lawyers attempted to prepare prepare his defense met with frustration his answer every question they asked was wait wait Did you know tell us about the Aiken situation? Wait, that's not true. No, it's true What he did we just kept saying we eat is it's his personal response which had several meetings one of which was both Okay, so you come up on Aiken and then what do you do? What wait wait? Oh, I dropped the ball though. I'm sorry. You're tired. I am released on $15,000 bail He died of natural causes in 1878 at the age of 64 Hey, oh disappointing the Many outlaws who wanted to kill him even though there were many attempts on his life the prophecy of Joseph Smith still came true No, Bullard or blade ever harmed Porter Rockwell He's buried in the Salt Lake City cemetery from an obituary at the time Porter Rockwell was that most terrible instrument It can be handled by fanaticism a powerful physical nature welded him to a mind of very narrow perceptions intense convictions and Changelist tenacity in his build. He was a gladiator in his humor a Yankee lumberman in his memory of bourbon in his Vengeance an Indian a strange mixture only to be found on the American continent That's from future leader of the church of Joseph Smith at Porter Rockwell's funeral. Wow Oh, this is from that Right, what a rock was yesterday afternoon ushered into heaven clothed with immortality and eternal life and crowned with all glory Which belongs to a departed saint? He has his little faults, but Porter's life on earth taken together was worthy of example and reflected honor upon the church Though all his trials he had never once forgotten his obligations to his brethren and gone At the time of his death. He was the oldest living member of the church of Latter-day Saints One of his old saddles is still on display at the Hutchins Museum The stirrups are adjusted at two different lengths to accommodate his shorter leg There's a bar called Porter's Place in Utah that is dedicated to honoring the heritage of Porter Rockwell, there is a bronze statue of old port located by the cast register and two other large statues of them One is a life-size sculpture behind the bar in front of the Lehigh Legacy Center The other is a larger-than-life statue at the Porter Rockwell Business Park in Bluffdale, Utah There he go. Wow there he go Well, but why isn't it weird how you can like it's just so fucking weird how if it's under the guise of religion Then you're able to a lot. It's okay to murder like then you don't like Why why is that I? Don't fucking know why can you? Why is this guy get statues? Well to some people he's a hero right that's what I mean I'm right, but you get if you're a hero to some you get a statue. Yeah, but he's a hero to them because he Was a murderer well, I mean he's definitely a murderer, but they needed that's what they needed at the time They were at war. Yeah, but because they're crazy but I Don't I don't think Mormons are any crazier than any other religions. I just don't I I do and The reason why is because of how recent it's like science. It's like a Scientology in a way doesn't matter it all has to start somewhere Well, it's all bullshit any religion is bullshit and it doesn't matter that it's fresher than then when Jesus was walking or Muhammad It's just it's just we just we but we have more like recent evidence to how much bullshit ear it is But anybody who is charismatic Really a leader if you're better out a person who has that leader thing Oh, you're looking at one right now, baby Okay, people are always like I'll follow you people always like I'll follow you wherever you go, bro Like you tell me what you need. I'll follow you to the gates of hell Like I've always been a natural born leader and I thank you for bringing it up. It's not and I appreciate the compliment I don't even remember what we were talking about. Yeah, that's not it. Thank you Now what it is is that I like I used to enjoy Louisville College basketball when I was young and and When I one day I was on a tour and I was doing a show at Louisville and the person was like, oh, you're Louisville fan You want to meet the coach and I was like, yeah, sure that'd be cool And that's the first time I was ever around a guy. I was like oh Right like they just have this insane presence that you just go whenever you say man What's going on like there are just people out there that have a thing. Okay, and that can start a religion Okay, but I think I Don't understand why Killing in the name of religion makes it better, but it's the same as killing in the name of anything else That's when people were all like it isn't though I don't think it makes it better because OJ Simpson's not gonna get a fucking statue outside of OJ's bar Yeah, but there are plenty of people who kill someone and Are heroes if you kill a child molester you're Or or if you kill You can game remember who's a bad guy like there's so many People who've been killed throughout history that has nothing to do with religion. They just kill someone else and everyone goes fuck Yeah, that's how it should be. It's all the fucking time, but I think you but we I feel like as a society We the religious ones we continue to celebrate like you can publicly be like Well, some religions we do in some religions we don't We don't celebrate there are people who you know The the the guys who killed the French cartoonists They're celebrated by some and not by the other but well But that's reversed. Yeah, but that someone shots one because of Jesus like like to take the thing made out of The Jesus painting made out of shit in Brooklyn That was like 10 or 15 years ago if someone killed that artist Don't you think there would be a shitload of Christians going but that's what I'm not saying that everybody But that's why what I what is bothersome is that It if it's your if it's your religion. Yeah, then killing is okay But it's also if it's your town if it's like if you are if you are in 1942 Take Oregon you're in Oregon in 1942 and one of your boys or half your town comes home in coffins And then a fucking Asian dude comes rolling through and he's like hey Can you help me out somewhere and they're like we're fucking interning you and you shoot him that town is like fuck Yeah, you did a righteous thing. Yeah, it's I don't think I don't think I mean you but it's very it's very much religion Well, no nothing's killed more people than religion. I agree with that But I also think you can go through History and find shitloads of times when people just killed and everyone's like that was awesome And it had nothing to do with religion so much to do a podcast about that