 You're not missing anything. No, I mean I'm the contrary buckle the fuck up. I would buckle the fuck up Dave are you excited, bro? Yeah, May 14th is the next live virtual dollop We'll be doing another dollop with looped live. It'll be a 6 p.m. Pacific time We are doing another live virtual dollop these shows are crazy. They have a lot of like Media in them videos and pictures David does a very great job and they've all been very fun So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade Arby's we've got the meats. No, no, no wrong copy Dave wrong copy. This is for the yeah Just stick to what we're doing so May 14th looped live 6 p.m. Pacific time join us again for another live virtual dollop We've got the meats People say this is funny not Gary Gara Dave, okay someone or something is tickling Is it for fun and this is not gonna come particularly quite good. Okay? You are Queen Fakie of made-up town all hail Queen shit of Liesville a bunch of religious Virgins go to Mingle and do my friend, but this is gonna be Australian history And what I decided to do because I was going through a lot of Australian history. I decided let's just give Gary a Actually, that's a Welsh name It is Yes, yep, that's that's tough to hear but yes So I decided for this podcast We would just turn off all my nine phones We are we're just gonna give Gary a little Refresher. Oh, hey, hello. How are you? Thank you? You're terrific. Thank you. I like when people bring me drinks These are all for me I'd like some too Gary you ordered the Gareth Jesus Christ ordered a pure blonde. Hey, how about you crazy you crazy racist? You both like well he likes German beer even drinks racist beer. He wants a pure and blonde Listen, just like it was originally gonna be called Hitler's best So we're gonna give you my craft we're gonna give Oh, he's alright He's alright. He can do stuff this guy. It's kind of funny Very patronizing We're sharing apartment right now. Don't touch me with paper Sharing an apartment just a couple of bros So we're gonna give Gary a little sort of how Australia came to be The origin story and then this is your Luke learned all of this in school Is this the It's a history podcast. I know it's just Looking forward to making some real singers on the On the fun start that is trolley head Think it's cross that I can back to bite me it'll be It'll be good. I can't believe that guy didn't pour this. Oh Yeah Life's tough. I mean, yeah, I guess just treat me like that Yeah, like a guy who has to pour his own stuff Oh, I mean you got to sip it like a regular person too. That's crazy Boy the plight of you Is this there if this is the origin story is this like 40 50,000 years ago? Is this we talking October 11th? 1738 oh boy I wasn't there just just for the record I Arthur Philip was born in London He was the second child of Jacob Philip a German school teacher who taught Arthur to speak five languages Four more than me And the the son of Elizabeth who had previously been married to one captain Herbert. What were the languages? They what the link what were the languages? Oh, I didn't Like when Luke's here. Yeah, fuck that fuck you Davo I thought when I was writing it up. I thought I should look those up and then I thought no one will care We know one was German okay, and your favorite and I know And I'm gonna guess the English because he's born in London and Then I'm pretty sure one is gonna be Portuguese and probably French and then the last one clean on the clean on Arthur was a cockney so that's the accent you're using today, which I assume goes something like Is that why we're doing this part because that's the only accent you can sniff around that's the only one you've gotten close I do all the accents not well offensively I do Australian I do I Ireland's hello In June of night that's 19 fit of 1751 he enrolled in the establishment of poor boys in the Greenwich School for Sons of Seaman All sons are from semen It's a different meaning of the word, but all sons are from semen you are correct. Yeah, there you go There they are up there for bonding bonding He was able to get him because he was the relative of a dead or disabled semen Philip was There's a lot of those when you finish yeah Most of them Get the one chosen guy Philip was an asthmatic kid who suffered from an assortment of mysterious abdominal pains cool Sounds like a good kid. Yeah, that's really fun after graduating at 15 He was quickly rejected by the Royal Navy as unfit for service So he got himself on a whaling ship and killed whales for a while Yeah In 1755 Philip managed to get into the Navy, but was then discharged on medical grounds the following year So he got in and they were like we were right you're fucked up Then war broke out and that enabled him to get into the Navy again because they were taking anyone That's gonna be come on you sick little fuck was his only so he's only problem was a mysterious abdominal pine Yeah, yeah, he's got weird abdomen and he's asthmatic so he's like What a pleasure that must be He served seven years in the war and then he retired in 1763 he married a rich widower and took up farming and cloth Manufacturing he's rolling they divorced that for six years and then he served in the Portuguese Navy when they were fighting the Spanish I don't know what happens back then, but apparently you can just go I'll fight for another country and off you go Get over here mutant do it. Let's do this. Come on you little sickly fuck So while in Brazil he was hit in the face with a heavy tackle and lost his right eye tooth His he's right. That's gonna come into play later Wait, what is right is right? I do what's his eye to I think like that's what you're tooth, but older, right? It's the tooth you have an eye in Do you guys not have an eye in one of your teeth? Just to appear huh the hell's happening What you okay, so he lost his right eye tooth he'll never be the same whatever the fuck that is it's gonna come back around I can't wait. I'm laying foundation Very snappy Philip was always Seeking leave to visit French spas in hopes Just a classic Nick, that's a classic Navy man. I need to go to French spa Oh In hopes they would cure him of his many random ailments He became captain he kicked around for a while he went to India He saw no action then he retired again in 1784 his career could be described as very very very unremarkable Now in England at this time they had a criminal problem. Don't look at me The prisons were overflowing the easiest solution was to just hang people hang out I get it Another was to grant lots of pardons many women were freed unconditionally and men were pardoned if they agreed to join the army and Go kill some Americans Fuck them right that's But Magic real the high just rates continue to impose sentences of transportation I I don't know what that I should have looked at out of jail and drive Making it clear that the lack of a place to transport people was not their problem So they would just be like alright So you got to get on the transport to go to the wherever you're supposed to go But there was no place to bring them and there weren't enough transport. So it's a good solution. It was smart. It worked really well for them so William Eden the undersecretary of state came up with solution in 1775 He proposed that male prisoners be sent aboard a proper vessel in the river in the usual manner as If in due course for transportation So now they're pretending like they're sending in a prison, but they're just putting them on boats. Just put them on boats Yeah, oh There you go. You're on a ship. Where are they going? Oh, they're going to prison at some point, but it's gonna be a long journey That's like what we do with our trash now. That's exactly what we do with our trash This allowed everyone to pretend that the immense inmates were being transported to a prison So the con convict hulk were born the hulks wait, okay, so they are Sending they're making them think they're going to another prison. No, they're no they're They found like a loophole. Everyone knows what's happening. They're just not there's not enough prisons So they're like we'll put them on a boat and that boat is going to the prison But it's never going to the prison the boat No one's being tricked everyone's like yeah Everybody's just big fucking lie everyone is acting like that's a thing everyone's just gets kind of like a wink But they're not anyway, they just they just drop it this kind of random boats Yeah, so they're just sitting on a boat that's just going it's like the love boat, but with prisoners prisoners Okay. All right good plan good talk The these boats became England's first long-term prisons They remained in service until 1853 that the inmates were chained and were poorly clothed and fed No fire or candles were allowed at night because the ships were made of wood. It would be fun to really Cloth one of the prisoners will yeah Where'd you get that top hat man, I don't know they just put it on me I like that he's gonna be the monopoly guy. I don't have money stay away your savage Why do you have a monocle and a top hat? Bathing was prohibited as unwholesome bathing was prohibited. These are this is a great boat Oh the smell and the sick were piled together on beds the sick were pie Perfect roomies Okay, we got another sick one. No, there's already four of us At least put the guy with the diary on the bottom He's the most sick that's like a totem pole of ill And the sick base were positioned upstream so that the waste of the disease drifted past The healthy which then made the healthy not healthy Make room in the bed 28% of inmates died between August 1776 and March 1778 so that's a pretty big rate But in a way, that's probably what they they were fine. Oh, you know, they were like, oh good news Let's get those numbers up though And these these are prisons that like we're talking like love for bread and stuff of that like well some of them will I guess hard but some of them were just did middle. Oh, yeah, no, a lot of them did a little tiny shit Little tiny stuff. Yeah, a lot of these people are like you look at my dog weird What are you that would be a great crime? Get on the boat Worth it. I'd do it again if I had it all back. I'd do it again dog had a really weird tail This was also a time of enormous social unrest in England the Industrial Revolution was taken off and Englishmen were rioting over everything they riot over the they ride it over the price of fish Fuck yeah, we did during the food riots. They rioted over theaters ending half price admission after the second act Yeah, you're over rioting if that's what you're right You're just looking at right price. Let's get them boys. You're out of vinegar right? There to go right. Come on. They're gonna go right We dug riot They rioted over work conditions during England's first cross industry wage strikes and prostitutes Uh went on strike against the profiteering of their pimps. We're on strike. That's it. No more pussy We're riding over the there's no pussy now just a confused guy who hides cats is with the The pussy riot In 1780 they rioted over the repeal of laws that prevented Catholics from serving in the armed forces That's loaded A 50,000 strong mob burned down the houses of wealthy Catholics and released thousands of prisoners And that's why we release smoke when the new popes named right yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you The social unrest combined with the return of 160,000 now unemployed soldiers From the defeat at the hands of the Americans Boom you guys should have tried it it was pretty cool So that led to a spike in the crime rate and now the British need to find a new place to put their criminals a lot more pages The The bibliography Yeah, it's all footnotes from here on out Now the British needed to find a new place for their criminals in 1779 a parliamentary committee considered possible new sites one Joseph Banks recommended Botany Bay for its European climate and fertile soil But that was weird because he had been to Australia and previously described it as the most barren country he had ever seen Banks also suggested that the land need not be purchased from the quote naked treacherous and extremely cowardly natives As they were nomadic and would happily just go off well If America I mean America did that we set the example Set the bar, but you just show up and you go hey, we're here now and they go No, you're just like Turkey and then you stab them. Yeah. Yeah How about some blankets? Too soon Lord there'd be so many like less Issues like what we're about to describe if there was just some sort of inbuilt universal way to say we already live here. That's Really what you just like a sign. Yeah, and all the all humans get it. Oh, it's yeah, I'm sorry. Sorry Turn around so much already here. Yeah Yeah It'd be great if you could just do that now if you could just walk into an apartment and just be like yeah mine So the fuck out Leave the woman Well at the British the Parliament wasn't sold on the idea so they tried to send convicts to fight in wars in Africa But it turns out that when you give a bunch of convicts weapons Yeah, yeah, that didn't work out very well. Yeah, oh, thanks fuck you Now hold on a second here America didn't want the criminals because they had Slaves they were like no, we're good We're pretty chock full of this shit over here. So we kind of figured out a great system of our own Yeah, we feel really good about it. Yeah, we're gonna own them So they try to palm palm them off on the Portuguese as slaves, but the Portuguese were just like no Finally they said fuck it and they decided to send the criminals to botany Bay The botany Bay's here I knew it now you left a lot of clues on where it was David didn't take me that long Now they needed a man to run things and their new colony convict slash place They asked quite a few able and respected officers to take charge, but they all were like no No, I don't know wait a minute. And so they settled the doctor on the very mediocre Arthur Phillip With his stomach pain is bad breathing and no eye tooth on the right Whatever the fuck that is He was named the first governor of New South Wales The first shipment of criminals was to be about 70 female convicts and a few wives of Marines with the remaining 1400 human cargo to be men the 70 women and 1400 men Yeah Your house your math just good enough to know what's up. Absolutely spammed on tinder. Let's just See because sending 70 women to an island does sound like a reality show I like what I'm hearing but then 70 women and then yeah, and then you've got Over hundred seven yeah like a thousand and five hundred just dicks Well, that's what happens when the ratings dip you're like, all right fine. Just sent 1400 men You would oh my god, look what's happening It'd be nice if like they all could it went the other way and they are all like they were competed to be the biggest gentleman Have a great If they welcome to the biggest gentleman Philip question the numbers Why and the heads of a plan that was a guy whose title was the heads of a plan Hello, I am heads of a plan Okay, I'm vice heads of a plan. I work under him The heads of a plan agreed that the numbers the numbers could lead to homosexuality There's 70 women Okay, they have three holes each yep It's math I'm doing math. There's 24 hours in a day Hey, let's get our pie graphs out. We're gonna figure out how to carry the nine sort the holes Plus two hands, so let's keep right so five five release things. Okay Philip proposed that any con colonists convicted of sodomy Would be delivered to quote the natives of New Zealand and let them eat them wait. All right wait Let them let them if some guy got caught fucking another dude They sent him to New Zealand and that and then the New Zealanders would just eat the guy Whether they wanted to or not apparently they dropped the dude off on the New Zealanders would be like, oh, we don't eat people I'm like that's your job Yeah, okay, so yeah, did they did they send both they were both of them or just the one oh That's a good question. Yeah, I assume if you're the receiver That they that guy would be sent but the guy who did it they'd be like well He's like I was picturing one of the 70 women the whole time. I swear to God I got a long hair. Yeah So Philip decided to make use of the prostitutes that he had Writing of the female prisoners quote It may be best if the most abandoned are permitted to receive receive the visits of the convicts in the limits A lot of them at certain hours Wait, so he just was sending he was sending a bunch of prostitutes be like so just fuck them Their horse go ahead and have Adam. That's what he was saying. He was like they're dirty dirty dirty These are the 70 women or these sending reinforcement horse as I call them Reinormance because the 70 No, he gets more he gets some more He's like dropping a big crate of horse on the island like it's aid. He's like these women like it He also thought he might pick up some women at the friendly islands Tonga or Tahiti So he thought he'd pull up in a ship and be like you guys want to get fucked Sounds like he's creating the Fanta girls I don't know what that is me either. Let's keep going Just to be on the safe side He collected an extra a hundred female prisoners from county prisons and permitted 25 wives and Mothers of convicts to join the fleet so 25 wives So those women are not convicts. So they're the first they're the first free settlers these women That's a good. That's a really nice way of putting it the free settlers lucky girls. Yeah, how about the mothers? They're like, I don't want to live without my Bobby. Let's go to that fucking prison island On the voyage over Admiral Middleton decided the prisoners should only get two-thirds of rations of the Marines Because they would most mostly just be chained up in the dark. So they didn't need Yeah, they're not moving around and jumping up jumping in yeah He also wanted to charge extra for the weevils in the flower calling them protein This is a very this is a very positive plan. I like a lot of a lot of shine on this Phillips actually stuck up for the prisoners and demanded equal rations decent food and clothes Philip was also asked for rum for his soldiers, but was denied because Lord Sydney wanted New South Wales to be a dry colony It worked Yeah, I The three dollops I have written in Australia two of them a lot of it is about drinking Okay, all right So the sorry, how many women are we talking about? I don't know I think you got like 70 we've got like wives got like 70 you got like about 200 women 200 okay about 200 1400 Okay, yep, 1400 men to 200 women. Well getting closer So gonna be some problems. No way not on the dollop The Marines threatened a mutiny Over the rum and Sydney agreed that they should be allowed to drink But only for the first three years of settlement. Oh, yeah, and then it would become a dry wait that really That's like a continent equivalent of I'll just have one I'll do one It's it's like it's like having the bar clothes that I said the bar clothes at three So but they're just doing that with the whole place. Yeah forever. Okay guys last call They just turn all the lights on forever last call the convicts were not given we're not to be given any liquor at all Just the Marines could drink so that's that's gonna go great. They set sail on May 13th 1787 Philip had asked only for quote healthy young men and breeding women for his colony and Breedy women breeding Breedy breeding ones you could breeding I think put your yeah, no, I know I get it Okay, yeah Wait, what do you do? You look shum He was also given Dorothy Handlin an 82 year old perjurer and Elizabeth Beckford a seven-year-old cheese thief I've got me cheese. I'm gonna live large get a get a get a grabber. Oh, it's so hard to run with cheese when you're 17 She's got Brie all over herself The youngest convict was John Hudson a 13 year old chimney sweep who had been in prison since the age of nine It's never I couldn't find out why I just a bunch of cunts nine You just put a nine-year-old in prison and they're like, ah, well fuck it. I sent him to that island How do you plead? I'm nine I plead I plead nine most of Because people I guess it wasn't like because people knew like because When you read this stuff you assume that everyone in that era was like, okay, that's normal But there must have been some people going he's nine like somebody had to be like, but he's a child He's a child. I'll go back then. I guess he was halfway through his life. It just yeah It just seemed like every Everybody was out for themselves and no one gave a shit about anybody back then because you know how I don't get political but she club it changes ends up botanist in the birds they're gonna look at our periods and Game marriage and all that as if like we were a cool with that. So it's like, yeah We don't guys get right like I feel like we're gonna get blamed. I feel like you run back then too. There must be something We're going this is crazy. He's nine. This is crazy people just staring blankly at him going He looked at my dog with I don't get banished to an island for stealing cheese. I don't know my point is but carry on Your pro game marriage, most of the first Fletters were thieves Edward Perkins stole a chicken John Price a goose and Harry Vincent a cask of currents Nicholas English stole hair powder John Nichols stole actual hair with their powers combined William Francis was transported for seven years for stealing a book entitled a summary account of the flourishing state of the island of Tobago Off with you. Yeah, you like islands. Do you? William Price received the same penalty for stealing a mirror I like to think one of them had like an actual super heist crime planned and they go, all right now We just need a chicken Gotta get the chicken Maybe this was a gang yeah, they were they were all stealing the one thing to eventually commit a bigger crime Yeah, John goose Harry get the currents Nicholas hair powder not again John you get the actual hair Francis you get the book and Bryce grab the mirror and nine-year-old you just stay here Sounds like a scavenger hunt it does a fun one of the 759 convicts 28 had committed no crime other than handkerchief thief theft But in there to take a tip that they stole handkerchiefs like you wonder I'm gonna get myself a handkerchief Someday I feel pretty special now Got me a hanky imagine blowing your nose in a something. It's not your hand. Oh Cry kid I'll be the day that'll be the day You'll see I'll come back You'll all be going there he is with his no Right come back to this shit town. I'll have a hanky. Yeah, and you'll look at me like the God. I am All hail King hanky Ah fuck me What not there might have been a rich guy in the street who like just hated his neighbors and he's like I'll give you 100 bucks if you go give me a chicken And they are slowly by he had the whole street to himself Another 78 had stolen goods that included handkerchiefs and a further 225 stole other cloth goods There were French convicts American convicts Jewish convicts 16 convicts of African descent including Thomas Chattac a Jamaican who had rebelled against the British imperialism by vandalizing 12 cucumber plants Savage Take this you brits. He would attack. He would attack them You can suck who did this? Banksy you The male convicts came from a variety of professions While most of the female were domestic servants or quote single woman of no trade Hmm historians have argued forever about how many prostitutes were part of the load prostitution was not actually a transportable offense So prostitutes were frequently found guilty of other crimes like Stealing their clients handkerchiefs god damn it. What is going on? Philip held female convicts in particularly contempt complaining that many had quote diseases of long-standing Had been discharged from the venereal disease hospitals as incurable and that quote these disease-ridden and Abandoned wretches became the mothers of Australia There were venereal disease hospitals But that's made that's made it so Australians are completely immune to all listy days Did not know that and that's why the koalas got it yeah Koala's got chlamydia nobody else fucked a koala what who fucked a koala Okay, I think I look a little and pretty they are One of the fleet sets once the fleet set sail the convicts were allowed to stroll about the ship the boundaries between criminals and free people Quickly slipped away the hatches were removed from the female prisoners quarters for reasons of health and comfort and Many women would soon sport new handkerchiefs What the fuck the fleets currency for fucking? They were fucking for handkerchiefs What is with a handkerchief? How many were they nice? They're very soft. They run at high fever but what? There's a lot of hay fever out there still Who gives a fuck? Among those Marines whose families were on board discontent was growing the Navy board had allocated their wives and children Significantly less rations than Philip had arranged for convict families. They began to bide their time Philip derived a botany bay on the 18th of January 1878 that can't be right 1778 sure I'm happy if you skip ahead some of this stuff. I just jumped ahead. Are you guys cool? I just jump ahead a hundred years It was a hundred year voyage. He crossed a time barrier. Would you stop and ask for directions? This is ridiculous. I was born here He had lost only two percent of his convicts which was considered a very good rate at the time the livestock had not fared So well many of the sheep had died of sea sickness and the chickens had taken out the goats when their coop was blown into the goat Pen during a storm. I'm gonna need you to run that one back The first goat chicken war the chickens what? Okay, the sheep died of sea sickness. They were like which makes sense. We all know don't take sheep on a boat and The chickens had taken out the goats When they're we have a very particular set of skills I If I was a wagering man, right, I'd put my money on the goat Yeah, I think that the chickens are like all pushing against the coop. They're like heave Heave heave and then it fell on the goats And they would have like jumped on its head and like laid an egg to blind us and then Philip wasn't worried about the loss of livestock because Joseph Banks had promised that botany Bay was a land full of all kinds of Edibles and the land was ready for a planting He had a whole two years of food ready to go so it shouldn't be a problem how many handkerchiefs that he bring Whoa upon landing Philip realized that banks was a fucking liar The land at botany Bay was sandy or a swamp and there was almost no fresh water The Bay was too shallow to safely moor ships and quote every part of the ground was covered with huge black and red ants To be able to see his face when he gets there Fucking takes forever Chickens are killing goats And he's like once we get there man. I hear it's beautiful to be great. It's gonna be what the fuck It's all over me. There's fucking ants on me. Oh There were also these things called Aboriginal people already living there Banks said they would dash off, but they did no such thing Philip tried to win them over by giving them paper and other shit The Aboriginal people did not believe many of the Englishmen were actually men because they did not have beards So one Englishman was forced to drop his pants and show them his junk All right, look seriously fuck you look I have one I Just shave I have a dick It'd be great if he just like jumped the gun like if they were like if there were so many steps in between he's like I'll just show My dick So they're off to a great you could have just grown a beard that's a fair point Okay, there's a fair point fair point Then suddenly a hundred hundred Frenchmen under the command of Jean Francois de Galoupe Ct de la Paris fuck that you know fuck you you long named French asshole Sorry, I had a heart. I didn't catch the name Jean Francois de Galoupe Ct de la Paris you can't say it without cheating yourself Philip said fuck it and sailed off to another harbor up the coast Philip named the new harbor after Lord Sydney Mm-hmm. Oh the great didn't stick it Yeah, what not did stick it? It's called Sydney This is where he would build the new society. He came up with some great ideas first no money because convicts like to steal it Then no alcohol and tobacco because well just because It was to be a society without shops or trade where the state would provide equal rations for every man whether felon or free and there Would be communal farms to feed the people So he was it was the first giant hippie commune With convicts wait they couldn't have alcohol no alcohol no tobacco. Can I have alcohol? Is anybody got another beer? Hey, would you care thoughts of their Heineken? Can I also have another be doesn't have to be a pure blood could be any be on Stick to your master race of beers I couldn't think of it in time a sigh You've really swung in the other direction now Well, I mean they were they did fight with the Nazis Still on the other side of the war So nicely done No, that's right Asians or Asians are Aryans you're right David. I'm sorry You know what happened a world war two right? Yeah, we've saved it We fixed everything Convicts were not down with the rules and about 400 quickly scurried off into the bush and tried to hitch a ride back to Europe with the French The Marines like Major Robert Ross and Lieutenant Clark hated the convicts. They weren't about to go round them up They were not thrilled with the actions of the men and women and the convicts had celebrated landing in Australia by unloading the female prisoners and having an orgy Alright Alright, alright. Yeah Lieutenant Clark wrote of the newly erected women's camp quote I would call it by the name of Sodom for there is more sin committed in it than any other part of the world I'm picturing the you know in the second Matrix film when I first see the city. Yeah, and it was like everyone's like some skewer efforts Like a brother filled No, no, no, you keep going I think I think I know this number to do Scurry and disentery ripped through the camp by March Searching whites wooded in hospital held over 200 patients crazy rains tore through the settlers huts intense Phillips house was neither wind nor waterproof and the governor developed a pain in his kidneys that would stay with him for his life But he had all that's just another one. It's just another place to like hold French spa Rats attacked the first crops of wheat and corn and the few surviving crops yielded almost no grain all But one of the fleets five cows escaped What the fucking cow guys I'm by the distraction you go Oh, yeah, I got dancing cow five cows five cows now watch out for the chickens now There's one oh the one cow left attempted to kill anyone who tried to milk it and so they shot it Smart smart it's a good it's a good start. You got to shoot it Blow flies bad weather poor forage and Dingo's wiped out 69 of Phillips 70 sheep Just end up with one of every yeah, yeah, they're like Noah, but they're like fuck we forgot about the other one The colonies hogs were encouraged to roam outside the new town's boundaries where the aboriginal people were like hey dinner Look at these fucking giant things of meat that are coming towards us so then the hogs are moved closer to the town Because they were getting eaten and then they just were breaking into huts and eating all the colonists food Wait, they They started eating the people and then moved to the food no the the the pigs were getting eaten by the Natives and then they were like all right bring them closer to the to the town And then they had them in the town and then the pigs started eating off of people's food. We're not small the people who had I know six Remember going back a little Are they waiting over? Yeah, they were supposed to eat the people who? Do you not read them earlier ready you read it was on the thing they were supposed to eat the people who had the mental remember The ones who couldn't find the ladies Oh, yeah, well, that's the New Zealanders Yeah, like Yeah, I'm staying on story. I'm still I'm on this continent. Anyway, let's get back to the second mate, okay So Food theft escalated Thomas Hill stole some bread and was punished with a diet of bread and water for a week Wait wait wait. He's like yeah boom Exactly what I wanted and water It's all upside. It's yeah, it's some good good punishment that did not work And then Philip started hanging people so he was like okay, you stole some bread Fuck you here's some bread and and then he's like well that didn't work So let's kill him like no in between zero to sixty zero zero sixty all or nothing Thomas Brett who had stolen butter peas and pork was the first to hang Even though they weren't allowed to drink alcohol abuse was through the roof Sailors and Marines traded hard liquor for soft comforts Convicts broke into wine stores and there were numerous attempts at home brewing fights over alcohol were common as were Floggings for public intoxication the convicts soon realized they were doing all the work and if they didn't shit went pear-shaped So they refused to work standard hours insisting on a system under which they would hold 88 yards a day By 1792 they had negotiated this down to 38 yards a day some good negotiating No one would build the Reverend Johnson at church But the column colonists enthusiastically erected taverns and brothels It's my kind of town The Aboriginal people of the area were known as the Yura I said that right right Yura you guys even know what? Yura well it's spelled Yura, but I was told it was you say it Yura Really just fucking pissed about it so So so so when I when I actually go and research how to say a fucking word it turns out it's wrong Because I always say words wrong and I would have said the Yura So I would have said it right and then I get all these people like what are you fucking say words right? And then I go and figure it out and it's fucking wrong Those beers aren't coming are they my show is called hothead by the way My show is hothead 7 of 715 Greek Center It's like this, but about his family So the Yura okay the Yura marked a boy's a transition to manhood by removing an ith Well, I don't look at me like that that doesn't tell me what it is The fuck is it doesn't matter what it is. It just matter that his is gone Oh, what if it's like a toe hair is anybody know what an ith is? Oh? It is pointy one so it's what I said So do you have two or do you have one? Just missing one I tooth why is it the I they would remove they would Is that why it's under the eye? It's oval shaped. Oh, okay. Yeah, I have the oval tooth. Yep It's cool. I just like to point out that you guys don't know what the fuck you're talking about So they would remove an eye tooth and it's exact tooth of Philip was missing so they believe Philip to be an initiated Eora warrior returned from the dead Finally It's all coming together and if you had stomach pain and asthma you were the chosen one Oh, does your kidney hurt your wizard? It's the one we've read about He's here Philip wanted to make nice with the aborigines because if they wanted to they could kill the colonists Now am I is it okay? I don't know what words are proper is aborigines an okay word to say okay Was that by all the aboriginals in the room? I actually think aboriginals wrong too, I think I think even I got you know, I'm gonna no no no Sorry do it do it Luke have a beer. Oh Did the beard no we didn't get any beers. Can we get a couple of beers for the fellas? More horses for the men Okay, so they think he's something big and so he wants to make friendly with them You know because they could if they wanted to just overrun the village and kill them all and he wanted to know what you are Had the deed to the land so he could buy it with blankets and mirrors He's like a magician Now the French had bailed by this time and on the way out they had shot a few of the aura Which made them a tad skeptical of all white guys Meanwhile the convicts who were super into being criminals had started raiding the Yorah huts They traded oh, thank you so much They traded Aboriginal tools and weapons for rum rations and clothing with visiting sailors who took the artifacts back to Britain as souvenirs In contrast an Aboriginal man who stole two shovels was shot So there's a little bit of a different Justice system the Yorah were also made up of a bunch of different tribal groups who often fought with each other Philip wanted one guy to be in charge of the Yorah So he sent one lieutenant Johnson who nominated a Yorah ambassador by clubbing him over the head Tying him up and kidnapping him in a rowboat It's a fun ceremony. This would be the ambassador The new ambassador would not tell Philip his name so he was called Manley Philip invited ambassador Manley to lunch and then had him tied up in Phillips backyard So this guy was just like you just keep tying me up. Well, he's ambassador. Oh, right Manley then finally revealed that his name was Arab anu and then he caught smallpox and died That's why you don't tell people your name Half of the Yorah were wiped out by smallpox in 1789 Is there a big it's so great that you guys do the same thing we did It's so nice. Is there a bigpox You don't want to know yeah, that's true In Sydney a new society was taking shape convicts were getting into relationships the Marines started shacking up with some prostitutes Lieutenant Philip King started banging his housekeeper David Collins the colonies deputy judge advocate hooked up with a prostitute And they had a couple of kids Meanwhile Philip was sort of missing records on when convict sentences should end Dave you can have the honor system Just ask him nice Plus he really needed to keep them working Also, the Marines had now split into two factions captain walk can trench and lieutenant William Dawes let a group that wanted to work for the benefit of the colony and build relationships With the Yorah Dawes went as far as to actually produce a dictionary of their language But other Marines were led by major Ross Ross had already figured out a way to have a second salary by appointing his nine-year-old son Second lieutenant of the Marines. Oh My god, that needs to be a sitcom And yet Ross was still pissed He was pissed that his Marines were subject to the laws created by Philip rather than to military discipline And when seven of his men were hanged for stealing from the food stores Ross told the Marines to boycott jury duty Well, you're really showing them there Killed my guys. Well, Jerry duty is over my friend and now everybody boycotts Jerry And but that would have destroyed the colony's legal system so Philip then created a convict police force who were super into arresting Ross's soldiers Ross lost his shit Philip banished Ross to Norfolk Island where was hoped he would do no further harm But he was Ross There he created a new legal system whenever a pig died a formal Colonial inquiry was held Unless a natural cause of death could be established all the convicts were punished Wow You're like putting butter on the pigs like stay up now. You're good boy Say healthy if a pig died, I don't know how if they had like a pig autopsy like how they Causes okay, I think they got a lady from bones They've got like a little chalk outline over the pig the rookies vomiting You lot Ross also gave land to teams of convicts and offered prizes to those who gave him the most corn The Convict realized it was easier to just raid each other's crops The shrewd there's a corn contest fuck you One day while transporting Ross Captain John Hunter ran Phillips largest ship the Sirius onto Norfolk Islands reef Convict sent to salvage the wreck and they were sent to you know go out there and salvage everything on the ship He ship was called the Sirius. Yeah, it's not that serious. It's the other one So they sent convicts out to salvage the wreck, but they just took the rum and set the ship on fire Same thing the same thing oh We should have sent the Marines Hey, where's the ship? What is what? What a ship? That's that oh fuck it's hot no ship Should be fine man should be fun fine So that was the end of the colony supply ship and Sidney when that was now running out of food Philip ordered the colonies dwindling supply of seed grain to be soaked in tubs of urine to deter theft What? There's got to be a better way all right. I'll just piss on it Give me that handkerchief. I mean It's I don't I don't understand it because Yeah, if you're pissing on it. It's yeah, you're no, but I guess you're saying well We're not ruining it because we can still cook with it, but if you can still cook with it Then people will be like I'm still gonna take it. Yeah. Yeah, what I'm saying is shit on it Maybe he had a close mate who just had like a tub of urine business and he's like you got to help me out man Come on man, I Invested everything into this My wife's all over me Please the kickstart is failing please all I've got is piss Just tubs and tubs maybe we figure something out Sir anything you need pissed on anything There really is no logic to doing that nope all right good talk maybe there's been like a jellyfish attack or something But I never came so The convict still did not refrain from stealing and eating the grain yeah, this is good pissy clothing really taste the past gorgeous Clothing was also in short supply convicts work naked to preserve their tattered clothes and Philip ordered a shoe embargo I Have got one more tub of urine joke The guy got rich in the end But you might know it is Fosters, sir, sorry It is a big can of piss It's worth going to jail in 1789 King George the third pardoned all of the women on death row and ordered their transportation to New South Wales They hoped this would stop the coming issue of impending homosexuality David David we could have had better phrasing there Disagree I very much disagree The Lady Juliana set sail the ship steward reported that most of the women on board were street walkers and that When we were fairly out to see every man on board took a wife The floating brothel as the Lady Juliana came to be known arrived in Sydney in June 1790 After one of the slowest convict voyages of all time They were just fucking She had stopped at numerous ports along the way so that the prostitutes could make some cash and her officers could claim a slice of the action When the ship arrived the Sydney colonists were distraught at the arrival of a cargo so unnecessary Because they needed food You said pussy A starship pissing on our food right now. Do you understand? Yes, we could fuck Alright, I'll fuck them a Starship turned up two weeks later But their joy was soon shattered by the arrival of the remaining three ships of the second fleet the British had hired some private Slave traders to ship this new batch of convicts But there was no incentive to deliver them alive to New South Wales. What? They just they just paid them to put them on the boats, but they didn't they weren't gonna pay them for how many they took off the boat Oh, cool slaves the slavers realized they wouldn't have to hire as many guards if they changed the chain the convicts together This also meant they didn't need warm clothes because they wouldn't be wondering about the ship deck Their possessions were tossed overboard to make space for food They also gave them the least amount of food possible so convicts started eating their own bandages Oh my god, you guys came from some fucked up shit Eating bandages, I mean it's a real Hail Mary When the ships arrived in Sydney, it was a horror show about a quarter of the convicts were dead Emancipated corpses were tossed over the side Skeleton-like men covered in lice and bedwounds crawled out onto the deck before dying in the sun Others died as they were loaded onto rowboats in agony from scurvy the ship's captain sold the dead convicts rations to the colonists Britain was not pleased What what did they expect? Well captain Donald trail of the Neptune was put on trial for cruelty and murder But was acquitted after Lord Nelson said he was a pretty cool guy Meanwhile a nine-year-old was hanged Plus the captains were needed because the government had just commissioned the same slave traders to transport another 1800 convicts to New South Wales right you guys can do that again, right? That was that worked out. Okay. That was pretty good. We worked out the kinks You're on a look at him. He's wearing sunglasses Back in Sydney Philip was still trying to find an Aboriginal ambassador he kept kidnapping them and tying them up in his backyard But they kept dying. Oh my god ambassadors are terrible But then one finally stayed alive. His name was oh You're an Australian. Why don't you go ahead and read that name at the top of the go ahead and read that name at the top of the Australian His name was um Wooloware Bomber But I'm sorry Had an I'm sorry and isn't it but a bundle it's a nickname. Uh-huh. It's what he had on his jacket. Well, it's like a trowel But that's that's so good. It's been a bit of been a bit of Bettlebong But they but they they called him Stan. I want to try Boyd but a little bit of under walk a trowel Wait, please tell me you got to say that name a couple more times. Oh, I didn't say the first name Wooloware Boinda Bob de Bunda Wagatrowie Bettlebong every letter He was called Bettlebong for short that'll bong That way Billabong can't believe they didn't go with Benny. They should have gone with Benny Okay Bettlebong was said to be smart charming and funny. He also had wild mood swings and loved a good fight Bettlebong set out trying to figure out the colonists and what he could get from them The first thing he realized was that Philip thought he was very important and would do anything to keep him as a friend So while the Marines and convicts starved Bettlebong was treated to endless amounts of pork While the colonists wore rags, he had two very nice jackets one red and one yellow that he strolled around in Oh my god As you can imagine the dirt eating convicts were not happy with the big eating GQ wearing black dude wandering around Man, then one day Bettlebong escaped Philip was very hurt, but reports were coming in of Bettlebong showing up in front of startled colonists and asking how the governor was doing Wait a second one day Bettlebong sent a gift gift of whale blubber These are awesome times obviously And with it Philip was invited to celebrate the beaching of a sperm whale on Manly Beach Philip thought this was it finally a breakthrough. There would be diplomacy with the euros I said it wrong didn't I know because I now have it written is It's all fucked up Philip went and he was speared through the back Alrighty he was dragged to a boat under a hail of stones and spears barely surviving so You know I guess at least his abdomen pains weren't that mysterious. Yeah Yeah, yeah, it's like the upside is my stomach doesn't hurt as much I Philip then sent people to look for a billabong saying always forgiven he wanted to reconcile I'd leave Jesus And he came crawling back billabong got the message and returned to Sydney there. He was given his own house On the point on the point of Sydney Cove, so he He's awesome to sum up he got a couple of jackets He made a bunch of food he ran away He kept stopping on how's everybody doing and then and then he said here's some Whale blubber you want to come to a party and then at the party they try to kill him and then he's like hey do you want a house? They also took him away from his people in his culture and said don't worry. I'm we're gonna give you two jackets Then an Aboriginal warrior named Pemmel away was speared and And he killed Phillips gamekeeper his gamekeeper. Yeah, like is all the games Not like like Dragons Yeah, exactly. Yeah, do not touch his Wii U You should have just pissed on him In response Philip ordered two of the Eora To be captured and beheaded and ten more to be captured and lynched in front of everyone Titford like a bunch sort of thing But when the men went out to catch some of them, they couldn't find any eventually Philip gave up on his awesome random massacre response idea and Soon Philip left the colony in December of 1792 a job. Well done He took Benelbaum with him and another Aboriginal man who was like what the fuck? Where are my jackets? James Ruse a convict whose prison term was over became the first land recipient in New South Wales The Reverend Johnson finally pulled together enough money to get his church Built and just as quickly it was burned to the ground By a colony atheist You guys are tremendous I Knew I like in here God so great Major Ross died in 1794 Lieutenant Clark returned to England the same year the old gang was breaking up Phyllis departure left a power vacuum and with no replacement governor on the horizon and because no one with a decent military Backer I wanted to go to the nightmare that was New South Wales The New South Wales corpse rushed in to fill it major Francis Gross assumed the Lieutenant Governorship of the colony gross was lazy and fat and couldn't comprehend that he was still being given the same rations as convicts So his great idea was to have his troops take everything from incoming ships and sell it at highly inflated prices This is just what a starving population needed Colonists who tried to deal directly with the traders on the ships all had unfortunate accidents The colony magistrates tried to step in to stop the monopoly so gross fired them and put his own guys in the positions Now that they had legal control They started prosecutions against people that didn't like or who were causing them trouble with their profits perfect Then they went a step further and let Let convicts pay to have their sentences shortened Or they would let someone else pay to have another person's sentence extended Holy shit Holy shit Holy shit Yeah, that one there fuck him. Yeah fuck him. Yeah give him another ten Fucking cunt Oh man, so gross we need to bring that system back. That's just fun. That's fun for everybody school He just came to an in detention forever. Yeah. Yeah, not that yeah The gross just wanted to be fat and lazy and not do all the bullshit works. So he pointed But John MacArthur the inspector of public works the cool thing about MacArthur was that he didn't believe in public works He was super to privatizing everything Probably the wrong guy from the job. It's like a it's like a hippie communal thing, right? Sure It's another point a guy to be in charge of the hippie communal thing and he's like I'm gonna change everything. Yeah, so So he was just John MacArthur was a Scotsman whose father had made underwear John was ashamed of his poor underwear making family and his his enemies whom he collected quite a few of always reminded him of His beginnings and called him a Buddhist Jack Just so ashamed of my past my father He just made underwear For killed people Necessary Shut up What did they call you underwear Jack they called him a Buddhist Jack Buddhist Jack. Hey brahman, he married up But he thought a military career was the way to get out of this mess But he was super into not fighting in the military During wartime he just went AWOL on his Gibraltar regiment While the whole time sending letters demanding he be paid his salary and Saying he would return when he was given a good assignment. He deemed worthy You don't understand what this is That assignment was New South Wales The place absolutely no one wanted to go Anyone with money connections avoided New South Wales like the plague at this point So few men wanted to join the corpse that gross was recruiting deserters from London's military prison MacArthur and his wife Elizabeth arrived on one of the famous death ships in the second wave That's a good name You're like I don't want to get on that. It's his death on the back Where's the serious is that around here? On the right over he complained non-stop about the smell the location of his cabin and eventually challenged the captain to a duel He's a fucking prick, huh? Neither men were harmed in the duel and MacArthur was transferred to a different ship more suited for assholes. I Like how if there's some duels where nothing happens where like My bad, but stop that we tried is a deal with a gun. So yeah, so you just means they both miss They both missed yeah, I Imagine just the just the awkwardness Bang Oh Hungry you want to get a bite or yeah? Pig downstairs, so we can just eat one of the dead guys. Let's do that. Let's do that. Let's do that MacArthur said about turning the farms which just produced food for people to eat into a money-making venture It was like it's like Tony Abbott. It was his It was his job to allocate farms So he started giving all the quality farmland to military men and the shitland to convicts and newly arrived free settlers for himself He took a hundred acres and then continued to add to it wherever possible But Carthar then gave each military man ten convicts to work on their farms even though the law said they can only have two At the same time he made it as difficult as possible for the public farms They were given all the convicts riddled with tuberculosis and other diseases or had missing limbs And then he reduced their rations back to bandages But there was a problem not enough English convicts knew how to work the land many were from cities They needed an influx of some hard-field working convicts. So Here come the Irish. Oh no That's not good news for anybody. I'm talking about on the podcast. Oh, I know. We're ready to fucking farm No Right over here, we've planted a lot of clovers and then over there more clovers. It's all clovers. We're waiting for the rainbow The Irish were perfectly suited to the task because they've been living under the under British oppression for so long Sir Henry Brown Hayes the sheriff of Cork sent the first Irish convicts to Sydney in 1791 most of these convicts had committed the standard crimes stealing handkerchiefs Hank it is and interfering with fishponds Fish that even mean I've got my hand in a fishpond you get out of there It's interfering with the fishpond I'm touching the fish here. Stop interfering. Oh my knock it off. Stop interfering I'm a bad bad fishpond toucher. I'll give you a handkerchief to leave Just like a group of like six of the baddest kids in school Yeah, we're gonna go to devil's peek and interview with mr. Smith's fishpond You're talking about interfering That's do this you're worried up there interfering with fish warrior. All right, we've had some fun Some of the Irish had committed unique crimes like Mary McLaughlin who was transported for quote felony of sock Couldn't even get to the handkerchief Didn't didn't say what that was no it didn't say I couldn't find anything about felony She's got two on one maybe there are different socks. Oh, how dare she Some Irish convicts were never tried or sentenced but transported simply for the crime of being Irish Irish women could be transported for the crime of homelessness Which was a notch up from prostitute. How can you be convicted of not having a home? Well, they're Irish What are you doing there just living fuck off why there you go in the ship These guys interfered with the ponds. They're called pond vicks So there was also a thing going on in Ireland where Irish men would kidnap a maiden who had an inheritance Then he'd bribe a priest to marry them and then he would take her virginity and go back to the Guardian and demand her inheritance Holy shit, and they couldn't get divorced because the Catholic Church was like yeah, no divorce What that basically kidnapping and raping and then being like okay, where's my money? Pretty romantic stuff I heard in Ireland This was so common in Ireland that groups of young Irish men formed abduction clubs The clubs would pay a household servants for information on their future wives Then the club would all good kidnap a girl and one of them would marry her how what priest is like Okay, yeah, this seems right. This seems fine. Yeah, that's okay. Yeah, they all moved to Vegas to marry people Oh, you stole this one then okay good. She doesn't look like she wants to marry you. No, she loves me. She loves me Yeah, cuz someone would actually have to do it like they have to say I do don't I like yeah so Well, she's already she's already this is how you do it You just be like do you want to leave and she'd be like I do want to leave you be like she just said I do Yeah She's mine Sir Henry Brown Hayes the sheriff who had sent the first boatload of Irish people to Sydney The guy I just discussed a moment ago was also sent to New South Wales after he abducted Mary Pike Who had been left 20,000 pounds by her grandfather? His mistake was that he didn't check her religion. She was a Quaker and the Quakers were like was just just divorce him Gotta do your homework So he was given a life sentence of Australia But he was already rich so he got to build himself a nice big house in New South Wales And he also brought 500 tons of imported Irish grass which he thought would keep the snakes away He has to be right right never heard of an expression that says anything different This will do it perfect now we can't see him. Oh fuck Fuck Once in the colony the Irish set about trying to escape in 1792 a group of 21 Irish escaped Sydney and started walking to China Everyone knows you have to dig to get there Trust me. All right. Is this China yet? I just swell with pride when I read about my ancestors What so yeah, so they believe that at a considerable distance to the to the Northward there was a large river which separated Australia from the the back part of China and That when it was crossed they would find themselves among a copper colored people who would receive them and treat them kindly And they'd order the number 55. I Walk that walk go they thought Sorry So fucking big river, huh? Oh, I can river goes out for a while. Oh She's a large one. I didn't know Oh, one of them died on the third day of fatigue then they were attacked by aborigines and one was killed several others were roughed up Pretty good, then they reached their destination realized the river to China was fucking huge So they went back to Sydney and told everyone that they were really hungry We just had a handkerchief for Chinese Now at this point all these Irishmen had run off and were living in the bush and just coming in and raiding the colonists for food So the Irish were all escaping another group of Irish decided to escape and head down south to the quote secret white empire That was supposed to be 300 miles away. It's like the Irish think they're living in Lord of the fucking Rings I Got a coat defeat the dragon They're just making up anything they're just making it up I'm going to the shire. That's right. I've always if you open this wardrobe look inside. It's a magical world I've always wanted to how long I mean you would destroy the friendship But I've always wanted how long you could get a really close friend to do just weird stuff by just saying I can't tell you but just trust me and Just see how long they can go on for until and just like I'm not putting my foot in Bucket of urine again, and it's just like yeah, like I get okay. There was no plan You got me I just want to see how long I could do it for seven years pretty good I've been putting my food in that bucket So the secret white empire was supposed to be 300 miles away And because so many Irish have been dying in their escape attempts the governor said that's fine, but I'm giving you a guide So off they went on a sanctioned escape They did not find the secret white empire, but they did discover koalas But the Irish were vital to the economy of New South Wales the English importance had slowed down because of the war with Napoleon I was hoping the next thing would be and they teamed up Great the movie posters just an Irish guy with a koalic We're different, but we're alike Party on the koala So everyone wanted an Irishman they were the thing to have between wait what they were like a beanie baby Well, they fucking came in and they worked and they you know, they did the job unless they just try to escape and they're clearly not bright I'm going to a magic cloud between 1788 and 1868 one quarter of all convicts arriving were Irish and half of all convict women were Irish now up until 1793 New South Wales was supposed to be a dry colony, but then a ship named Hope rolled into the harbor You've got to be fucking perfect I mean, how is this not a movie yeah keep The American owner would not sell grouse the food and supplies on the ship unless he also bought the rum So he bought the rum and sold it to his officers who then sold it at a huge markup By the end of the year the corpse were importing stills and killing anyone who was making moonshine Now there was a lack of money in the colony. So bartering was the way to do business workers were paid in sugar tobacco and handkerchiefs I mean really it's time to just shake them if they're just If they're done is there a reveal about why they were so coveted at the end of this like I could not find anything about the handkerchiefs It's just like it was just like in vogue. Yeah, it's just yeah You just pay them in handkerchiefs as if as if no one in history has been like what why yeah, yeah like no one Yeah Man we are made in we are earning some money tonight you must you must be sitting here the whole time like what the fuck is wrong with You know what I see it. I see it now. I see it. Yeah, I get it. It all makes sense now. It's cool Yeah, I get it. Yeah, thank you for your oh you can comment it David David David David David David David David I had an idea. I had an idea. I had an idea that would make more sense to me though Sorry Thank you for this. It was at this point that the convicts quote preferred receiving liquor for labor To every other article or provisions or clothing that could be offered them jealous. Yeah So now all they just want to be paid in liquor they're like, yeah, we don't need clothes or food or whatever just We're naked and we want booze The convicts received their wages by the bottle or jug the consumption of liquor led to gambling and other vices one man wrote to such excess was this pursuit carried among the convicts that some had been known after losing provisions money and all their spare clothing to have staked and lost the very clothes on their wretched backs Standing in the midst of their associates as naked and as indifferent about it as The unconscious natives of the country Full circle. So now they're just drunk and standing around naked We all have that friend I think you guys misunderstand strip poker Just naked drunk guys like if I see a game of cards I think you guys must understand strip poker I think you guys must understand strip poker I think you guys must understand strip poker Just naked drunk guys like if I see a game of cards Yeah, no, I don't have anything to play with I've just got to meet dick and some cards But do you want to play cards? I'll deal. No, I can't bet anything. It's how you know nobody's cheating I can let you touch me pubes if you win Because they you know in the height of the party and the drunkenness that's fine, but they would have also had to sober up and just do mundane stuff as well Oh, yeah, yeah, they just wake up and they're just naked. They're like, uh, gotta gotta gotta work Gotta gotta work. Hey Chuck. Hey Jim. Just punching in How you doing? Oh, it's a rough one the whole month I have no clothes still someone had some bad luck last night What about the guy who's just oh just got a pair of underwear left. He's like, oh fuck I hope I don't get drunk tonight Swear to god I keep shedding them It's getting hotter and hotter and hotter It's getting hotter to hide my homosexuality All the handkerchiefs in the world Uh, he wrote the columnist continued abusive liquor and frequent at times baseless duels Baseless duels are great Getting drunk in morning. What a duel Just naked guys getting drunk and shooting at each other for nothing. Welcome to australia That should be the flag There would have been a couple of guys to like Jim. Did you lose all your money's wealth? No So why don't you have any clothes? Yeah, they just Yeah, I got a whole closet full I was hanging out with betelbaum last night. I've got two jackets He believed the spaniard also believed the colony's moral laxity was most apparent in its women who quote Approach announcing the price at which they sell their favors Favors Favors like do you need help cleaning? And I have $14 for me pussy. How are you? Welcome, this is eight These are four that's two What's your name So where are you from? Well, you're from do you want to go ahead and fuck me? Jesus christ, I mean you guys are the most insane country ever I mean, I thought we were bad. We were just killing everybody you guys were fucking having a party It's better. That's just a non-stop party. It's better. Thank god meth didn't come. Yeah And then the ship of meth came Oh toothless set sail They're just smoking their eye teeth out Oh god Despite all this the colony was becoming prosperous in appearance with stately homes bringing up Agriculture expanded and the threat of famine receded and Australia had its first baby boom Lessonless people would naked Well, but it was also even though there are people naked There's clearly a lot of junk and Irishmen around it on some levels is exceeding with the farms And like so so well, it's like America. So there's a bunch of rich people and then there's a bunch of people with no clothes on But eventually being naked became like smoking in restaurants. It was like do you want clothes? You want naked? What do you want to? Smoking on oh, let's put a handkerchief down before you sit down. Sorry All right, fancy I want you to box him on the seat Okay, so there was a baby boom because everyone was drunk and naked. It's pretty not pretty hard not hard to figure that one out Uh, just everyone's like you're naked. I'm naked. Should we just let's just put it in there I'll say when it was just like a like a peck tram or something, you know It was like accidental like my god, I think I just depredated you So sorry I'm Daryl Uh booze came to australia and then there were a bunch of babies. That's how it happened They began opening up shops and taverns Right, so stuff started to happen. It was becoming an actual place to be pyface pyface Pyce pyface open soon there would be maccas Uh, sure there would be uh upcoming fights with the aboriginal people, but there were they were uh They were moving past there were starving to death phase. They were actually becoming a right colony. It's happening. Yeah, they were there There was no threat of it ending now um Of course, there are still naked people Fewer and fewer though, um like we'll go back to the guy who stole the hair Like he's just hoping we would he's a good he's a good indication of how things went John Nichols, uh, was an assistant with a hair merchant before he took his sweet load of hair And was arrested Uh, he was married to a woman on one of the transport ships. I like to think he had a he was bald and had a hot date that night Yeah Gotta get me some hair Oh, look, it's just a big pile If only if only there was some powder I've got chicken We're good. We're good. We're good um So he married a woman on one of the transport ships married carol, but then she was sent to another colony and that was the end of that marriage He was sentenced to seven years at botany bay for stealing the hair He was on one of the first Fleet ships. He settled in july 1791 on a 30 acre grant at prospect hill Wow He was described as a former gardener and had two of his acres cultivated by december He frequently was robbed by the runaway convicts who plundered him incessantly. That seems that was a common problem Yeah, come on guys. They're like rodents. Come on Fuck i'm I wish it wasn't just a hair thief you keep plundering stop plundering enough Nichols was a victim of runaway soldiers in uh, august 1793 who entered his house and held him prisoner while they hit their overnight By the mid 1800 mid 1800 Nichols lived on a 60 acre farm at prospect which he had bought from another colonist He had 40 acres in wheat with 12 ready for planting corn He owned a horse and 34 hogs is a successful farmer and he supported one woman A child six free men and two convicts In august 1803 he married am pew a convict and they had several children in the following years He was recorded in subsequent subsequent years As a landholder of various properties by grant and purchase and still a gardener He died in december 1822 and he was buried at sydney age 67 and he had 12 children So by this time it's kind of working out the guys who had come on the first ship Sure, there's there's naked irish people over the place But a lot of people are getting their shit together But they're like a gang now not a population you also need the naked irish people because you need workers Yeah, but you don't need naked irish people. I mean You need their skills. Look you can throw a handkerchief over their dick. The moral of the story is is uh, steel hair Not there's anything wrong with being bald not apologize for my lost command And uh, sorry, that's a great origin story. Did you like that's their origin story? You guys should be really proud Now garith knows about your history. How do you I don't know how you guys feel about it? Know that stuff because it's I mean, you didn't know that right? It's fucked up That's phenomenal the problem and the problem. I guess we both have now is that as a I don't know as a both countries. We were there second But you can't leave Because I guess the the both the indigenous people in both of our countries like the the the actual solution would be to just go Sorry and everyone goes We were misled. Yeah. Yeah my my bad But we can't and then that's where we're at now. Yeah That's pretty much where we're at now. Yeah Well, I decided I decided not to go into all the the killing of the native peoples because uh, thanks because I didn't have a lot of things We'd find them we'd find them It's a fun space to play in and I want to say there were so many people who were like you got to do it about the emu war The emu war and then I read up on it. I'm like, well, that'd be a great 12-minute podcast The emu war. Yeah, there's a war against birds Congratulations guys That's when you're scraping the bottom of the barrel for battles Let's fight birds They killed the goat That's it you gonna be aware you got any gigs to I feel like they're gonna kill me Oh, did you want your handkerchief back? They worth a lot, huh? Did you I've already sort of fallen in love with the look I get it now Uh, I'll be at the imperial at 11 15 tonight He's so blocked He's so he's so over the flappers joke He's like if I see one more goddamn flappers joke online, I'm gonna kill somebody Oh, and we should say we're selling those posters We're gonna sell posters out of the show out of you saw james faasdijk did a uh, australian down under poster Which will be selling out there. I just realized we don't have change Um, that'll be good and uh, and my show hothead I mean there's 450 of you here tonight, so if it's not sold out you're a bunch of cunts I don't know how else to say that I think I said that right you said that right very diplomatic And then uh I'll be on tv uh in uh, I'm filming a Uh, uh crackers international show it's sydney, so I think it's gonna air in june and that's just where you eat a bunch of saltines, right? Well, we just it's not that it's we discuss our international crackers And uh, and yours and you guys have one called shapes Which is the laziest fucking name Of any cracker of all time It's just called it shapes Could you call anything that yeah, you can call anything just because anything can be called shapes People will try the chicken ones. That's not the point How's your racist beer? Did you ever get your asahi or did you get a different kind? Oh, this is a bit purebites. It's a low carb if you want an asahi we can cross the river out there All right, well guys, uh, we are gonna walk to china and uh I appreciate you guys coming. Yeah, thank you very much