 I've heard about this guy and then you were wrong. There's a couple times I think I was right, but I think you're You look the points valid. It's a valid point God you want to look at it? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gara. Stay okay? Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not gonna come to tickle you quadcast. Okay You are queen fakie of made-up town all hail queen shit of Liesville a bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Hi, Gary. No, has he done my friend? No Dave are you excited bro? Yes! Are you excited? Yeah, May 14th is the next live virtual dollop We'll be doing another dollop of looped live. It'll be uh 6 p.m. Pacific time We are doing another live virtual dollop. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of like Media in them videos and pictures. David does a very great job And um, they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the Event of the decade Arby's we've got the meats. No, no, no wrong copy Dave wrong copy. This is for the uh, yeah Just stick to what we're doing. So uh, May 14th looped live 6 p.m. Pacific time join us again for another live virtual dollop. We've got the meats We have some fun. No, I don't know if that was fun. Oh, we're just June 24th. Jesus. I thought you had more to say 1883 Philadelphia opened the first outdoor municipal pool in the United States. Oh, no. Yeah Oh boy, is this at the corner 12th and Wharton streets? What is this going to be a pool tale? This is a pool story. This is a first. This is a dollop. It's about pools. Oh my god Okay city officials intended for the pool to function essentially as a large public bathtub for working class residents Who lacked bathing facilities in their home? Well, that's not a pool. That's not a pool That's what a pool was then a big bathtub where everybody could go bathe basically terrifying What that's what a bat that's what a pool was then I'm glad we shifted But quickly local boys and young men flocked to the pool in order to roughhouse and play in the water Just as they had done for generations in the rivers around Philadelphia Uh-huh throw batteries at each other. Yeah Four days after it opened the swimmers waited in line outside the bath Rided when the superintendent told them that they would not be admitted that evening. Oh boy Enraged the young men tore the bathhouse door from its hinges and knocked down the fence surrounding the pool I mean let him in you gotta let them in let them in police officers eventually restored order Quote with a liberal application of their clubs Well, I think we know when we're talking about cops and they're saying liberal. Yeah, that's pretty abusive Philadelphia went on to build nine pools The pools were incredibly popular over a summer 144,000 people would swim in each pool, but they're not swimming They're bathing. Well, they were meant to be for bathing, but then people also started swimming So people were swimming in dirty tubs? Gladly? Look, it's the 1800s What do you what do you? I don't know. I guess I don't know enough. I don't know enough what the options were. I think these are the options Let's go swimming Cannonball The pool was said to attract quote lower classes and street gamons. Okay, so I'm back to where I was before I'm out of the pool now They're filthy people I mean picture how many teeth were floating in the pool. Oh god, just lots of hair. Yeah, they didn't have chlorine Okay, but because the minutes Because the municipal pools were intended to be public baths The facilities did not contain showers as the pool itself was an instrument of cleaning Dirty bathers plunged into the water and rubbed their skin clean Just disgusting Disgusting The ymca introduced their first swimming pool in brooklyn in 1885 In the following 25 years the pools became major sources of sustainable revenue I really thought you were going to say staff infections At that point boys drowning was the second leading cause of death Uh for boys under the age age of 16 after disease. Wow So the y offered organized lessons and teaching the fastest swim stroke possible the crawl stroke In that pre tv era being the fastest was a big part of social entertainment I mean like there is no Wait pre tv sounds fun. Yeah. All right guys. We're gonna play fastest Look at him go in the water which one of you is dominant Oh And the boys were required to swim nude. All right, so That's a weird requirement Right Well, this was because swimsuits back then were made of wool and the fibers would clog the pools relatively lame filtration systems So nude swimming wasn't forced to make sure the pool didn't break but i'm Gonna stick with the wool plan on this but just for the dudes What women got to wear swimsuits. Well, that's fucking weird Right That's pretty weird. All right guys. Let's see those dicks ladies lace them up Keep the tops on Clawed your pool. We don't want to see it us and the young men are gonna be over here Swimming naked swimming naked. I'm gonna be teaching them the crawl I mean they swim at different times, right? Many women weren't swimming at the same time. Okay. Yeah. No, not that's not that's not helping me I got you Then in 1906 Edwin Foster a northwestern medical school graduate who was working at the ymca Tested the water and discovered it was contaminated shocking. I just want to point out that Edwin foster A medical school graduate was working at the ymca. Yeah testing their pools testing their pools So he was nailing it. My guess is that he was probably testing it during the girls free swim Over the crawl for the boys. His dad would come down to be like, excuse me, son But I we got you a degree as a doctor. I paid for that I like to work with pools dad. Hold on. This is my dream dad. Let me get this wool out of the beaker I'm trying to see what's going on in here Okay, this was the first major threat to the business income of the y because it was known that cholera and typhoid were Transmitted through water. I mean I mean, okay, there's uh, this is fucked What How are you doing this when typhoid is transmitted through water? I mean, look it had some let's get naked guys. Give the typhoid as many avenues as possible. Get out there and scrub scrub scrub come on Uh, and and these diseases were still causing widespread fatal epidemics that closed down cities So in 1906 the standard ymca pool procedure was to drain the pool and refill it once a week I mean, you really got to find out what time they're refilling it right? You don't want to go that's like your one swim a week if they're refilling on sunday and you go in on saturday Yeah, you are jumping into disease like when there's three feet in the pool. It'd be like mind if I just do a dip real quick Johnny don't go in there. There's aids A lot of that Uh, so this refilling pools actually continued into the 1920s and in one case in spartenburg, south carolina The 45 000 gallon pool was Anthony and refilled twice a week Until the 1920s could really use some of that water right now, man. Oh boy Men and boys can teach swim naked just as they had in rivers and farm ponds before pools in 1909 The new york times covered a swim meet where families attended 40 schools competed with around a thousand spectators watching Apparently being nude in front of people was less important than speed. Yeah quote That's why it was called a swim meet because your fucking meat was in the pool Fucking flopping Quote the athletic prowess of the very small boys in the 80 pound championship was of less moment To the spectators. I don't know that that got changed by auto correct Uh, it was probably of less import to the spectators than the enthusiasm of the youngsters who discovered in their trial heats That their swim trucks impeded them and that they could swim faster nude Okay, thereafter the boys in a state of nature swam like tadpoles through the many heats necessary to a decision What so an 80 pound boys about a 12 year old 13 year old? Okay, so okay. Yeah So are we Are we are we on the road to It all sounds a little Gay and pedophilic. Well, okay, but this is a different time. So I think people were But even the way that statement was said maybe was a little like yeah, it is. Oh, you know, they realized it impeded them Yeah, someone's painting a picture. Oh, nothing turns me on more than them getting impeded Someone's painted don't impede in the pool. Who's a tadpool. Who's a dirty little tadpole? Um, I know I but I think like or were they right or are we wrong like were were they like Not if nudity wasn't that big of a thing then isn't that more normal they made the fucking girls wear it. All right in 1910 the first pool Recirculating pump was installed about 1913 Chlorine chemicals were being added to the water the federal government was just beginning to require chlorination of public water And wool bathing suits were on their way out by the 1920s. There were other more comfortable swimming alternatives that didn't shed fibers Uh-huh. Okay. Yes, but nude swimming was not going anywhere. Why what the fuck? In 1926 the american public health association Published the first guidelines for swimming pool management The guidelines recommended that males swimming take a soap shower before swimming nude unadored Undyed tank suits were recommended for females. Also male swimmers were checked out before they got in the pool Oh my god. What okay, so here we go. This is a pyramid scam what What if You've got to be at some point someone's got to be like is it weird that we make the girls wear clothes And that we just shower the boys and then inspect them and then some guy comes over and looks at my dick and asshole All right. Now. How's your dick all clean? Bobby? You're looking good today. Oh boy. Your dick tastes really clean You really soaked up your pecker, huh? quote. There was the visual inspection Part of the aquatic director's job duty was to inspect men before they jumped in the pool. I'm the aquatic director Hello, I'm here to see your dick. Hello The inspectors weren't just checking for venereal diseases No The idea was to look for any open wounds or other indications in a swimmer mind. I'm a big open wound in back here Infectious disease. Well, you have a giant bleeding hole. Oh boy In the book the sanitation of bathhouses by William part. Get hard Nude swimming is encouraged alongside a pre swim physical examination Much could be done to keep the water in a swimming pool sanitary By an efficient supervision and management of the bathers. Gerhard wrote a physical examination of the bathers while nude to exclude The disease accomplishes much good, but it is difficult to enforce except in ymca buildings and schools or military baths Wait, okay why Okay, so right there's chlorine in the pools now And it's just the why that's doing the boy inspections. It's the why and it's all schools all public schools and military places Okay, so But and the castro Okay, I just would love to meet the aquatic director. I'm still I'm still there. Hi. My name is Bruce Okay, let's see now. I would like to be your aquatic director. Get out of here. You dirty girls. What's your experience? Well, I've seen dicks. Uh-huh That's it. I'm the aquatic director um Yes, and I'm also My penis is a medical device. I'm sorry So, let's see these penises. Yeah, so this is a this is a great job For a pedophile. Yeah. Oh, oh Dave Dave Dave like this is the best job ever This is like the jet like someone will be like like remember when a few years ago There was like this tropical island that had like a mansion on it and they literally were just They were trying to find somebody to just kind of watch the island. Yeah Yeah, this is that version for pedophiles. This is the island watch job For people who like boys from the ironwood daily globe in 1926 Boys shall not be permitted to use suits while swimming girls must wear swimming suits preferably of cotton all instructors in charge of classes consisting of either boys or girls shall wear swimming suits So at least the what at least the instructors were wearing a swimsuit all very weird Women did not actually swim in pools nearly as much as boys and men female athleticism was was it because all the men fucking was like hard to concentrate on their breaststroke Female athleticism was disdained at this point Even in the 1930s doctors were writing books claiming that athletic women gave birth to ugly babies. Oh, that's Hmm. Well, that's beautiful. Oh, that's tasty. Yeah Well, you shouldn't run so much Kathy your boy will be a freak He'll have one eye lower than the other. Yep. I've seen it. Well, those weren't jumping jacks. Were they you want a boy with a cone head? Then get and just lay down and be a woman. You want a dead head on your baby's shoulder? Stop with the sit-ups. What with the moving around gladus? The school board the public school board is responsible for schools with pools Also had to abide by the state public health and a pha pool management guidelines. So nude swimming at schools Swimming nude continued for years without anyone questioning it a few months after the us entered world war two The l85 regulation was implemented. This mandated the minimum use of cloth for clothing Since it was needed for munitions During that time it became patriotic for men and boys to swim nude. God bless this country Jimmy get your goddamn pants off. Don't you love America? So I want to see Dixon pools gentlemen. You're just making The pool into like a pube soup with men of all ages. Well, you're doing your duty for the country. Yeah, don't don't Dave this is about America. No, it is not about America. Do you care? Do you not care about our boys fighting over it? I just think you think about do You care about our boys fighting over there I do. Okay. So get it off. I also care about the pedophile who wakes up one day to hear That it's patriotic to go to the public ymca and go swim naked with boys Okay, so you're rooting for Germany. Yeah. Yep. Okay Hitler, buddy. Yeah. Yeah. I'm with Hitler on this one This went as far as publishing photos of naked boys swimming in newspapers and magazines. What? What I can't believe how gay this has gotten I really I didn't even want to say that I was worried about it becoming a huge weird gay thing But this is a huge weird gay thing in 1941 life magazine published a photo of young boys in a shower as part of a spread What on the concept of democracy? What? The concept of democracy How How did they do it? I mean that is a Segway of all segues huge segway. I mean look how great our democracy is these are boys naked in a shower This is the senate they vote on these bills speaking of bill this boy's name billy. Here's his penis. He's naked Taking a camera into a boys locker room at school and photographing teenage boys completely naked while showering then printing that photo Taking up an entire half page for the world to look at was considered perfectly appropriate, right? It's a swimming pool historian. I actually took out his name because I liked the term swimming pool historian Yeah, it is it is amazing to think of a guy who's like I know everything about pools Did you want to talk about pools today? Don't even get me into the above ground era at bergley this semester I will be teaching a swimming pool class to a room of crickets So first there was water Uh, the published letters to the editor immediately in the next edition of uh life magazine never revealed any review Reader having any concern about the naked boys. Good. It was totally normal. Good. It is totally normal Totally fine thing to do in night in 1940 the shaboygan pass. It was constant. Oh, no, no, Dave Yeah, I'm going into your David. Why because I had to leave my people be He published nude photos of a boy swimming along with his address Well, there's one striking difference between the boys and girls at the recreation department swimming classes in central high on Saturday mornings The girls wear suits the boys pretend that the pool is some old swimming hole and go in minus everything except their dignity The two pictures above were taken out the classes last Saturday morning. The girls at 8 30 the boys at 10 30 o'clock Howard rich Victor chink rinholts chink is in parentheses because that's his nickname Um, what okay? I have a to-do list. Okay Who lives at 15 30 clear street avenue? What demonstrates the correct diving technique for his fellow swimmers Is a picture of the boys Dave so it's just a naked kid on a diving board. Is he easy asian? No, they're just calling a non-asian kid a chink as a nickname. That's his nickname He's nick They were you were they aware that we were using that nickname for other things at the time? Okay, all right, and then and then all right, so let's just put a pin in that The fuck are they doing putting his address out there? That's like a treasure hunt for a pedophile Maybe like this. No, you can't you don't even have your defend voice on right now You want to swing by his house and talk greatest bottom? Oh, man. You had a great penis chink Just swung eight I saw chink swimming in the pool the other day Anyway to talk about his dick or talk to him about teach. Can I suck your boys? Can you is yeah? I'm oh boy. I should go Mr. Mrs. Chink I'm here to see your boy. I saw his picture in the paper and I want to touch him I saw the picture and I know there's a long line of gentlemen, but the reason it's like the bachelor It's gonna be like 50 fucking pedophiles like is your your boy. Can he come out and play? I have a private swimming pool And I saw your son in the paper that guy can't even open his eyes. He's so full of shit. I'm gonna look at the girl when I talk to you I'm just being honest Swimming nude began to wane a bit by the late 1950s. Wait. Sorry real quick. The girls are still wearing cotton Oh, yeah, always the whole time. So they're not patriots. So it's just the boys. They have vaginas and breasts, right? Okay, sorry. I just wanted to get that out of the way too by then automatic chlorination was controllable to adjust For the contamination in pools medicine had conquered polio and the medical profession was confident curative medicines would stop outbreaks of any disease That might be transmitted by pool water But nude swimming was still required by the apha required required required required What So anybody who went to school had to swim naked from the right now where we are now is the 50s on down Had to swim naked But people began to express concern in the 60s Oh, really? The time when everybody was getting naked against war they're like, wait a minute. Hold on now. I think we're fucked up societal norms shifted and some boys and their parents began speaking up in 1961 in the small town of Manasha, Wisconsin. Oh no back to Wisconsin High school boys and their parents petitioned the school board to allow boys to wear swim trucks to swim practice All right. They just wanted to wear them to swim. That's all they wanted to wear I'm glad. I'm glad that yeah, I'm glad we're trying to ride the ship in Wisconsin quote the boys were affected morally physically and psychologically by forcing them to swim in the nude one of the mothers Noted at the meeting But the petition was voted down The all male board claims swim trucks would be too expensive. They also claim that swimming nude would build a man's character I mean the all male board. Yeah This is just like the catholic church This is insane No, we like it when the boys are naked next Quote physical education considers that this experience is a good one for later life. For example the arm services where the Disregard for privacy is real and serious the director of the board noted Hey, these boys could go in the army. So they should probably be swimming around naked. Yeah, also I bought a new camera Also, uh, men should be allowed to masturbate at some of these swim meets Right. We're going to have a small window that you can stand up and look out and then Uh, a tidy room that you can masturbate in and the women will be wearing summer dresses. Of course In 1962 the american public health association dropped the nude swimming recommendation because it was no longer needed to preserve public health 1962 good. So every single person, you know that went to high school Before 1962 swam naked. Well my parents. I'm just thinking about my parents, right my brother No, your brother's not no Sorry, I apologize in the night in the 60s the ymc began to admit females So everything's fucked up now they're gonna tattle on boy times each location the aquatic instructor was like no no no no no No girls and they're not penis bodies Each location decided for itself on its nude swimming policies so after the After the apha dropped the requirement that now the y was just like well each individual y can make their decision on whether or not Boy should swim nude I mean, it's it really is just saying to anybody who likes nude boys Yeah, this is your heaven. Yeah, you can have a nude boy trap Uh urban brawler the general secretary of the allentown Pennsylvania ymca reported to an executive ymca conference that basically The reasons for nude swimming wool fibers and cleanliness no longer made sense for modern pools Which were then equipped with chlorine and powerful filtration systems Brawler said the only rational reason to continue the tradition of nude swimming was to encourage a proper attitude toward the body What he should have left that last part out Everything made total sense By the 1970s swimming nude was fading from schools and public pools schools weird The Duluth school district included in its 1973 1974 budget An amount that secured a sufficient number of swimsuits for the boys swim program And that the practice of requiring boys to swim nude be discontinued immediately Yeah, well somebody woke up in 1972 congress passed the federal title regulation title nine regulations It prohibited sexual sexual discrimination in educational institutions and allowed females to play On male sports teams if no teams exist for females, what about their babies this? This led to women being much more involved in sports and therefore swimming it greatly helped Uh the practice of it greatly helped end the practice of male nude swimming in schools that along with the fact boys hated it Here's what and it slowly faded away almost all but forgotten Now today tv shows and movies of those times depict boys swimming in swimsuits So the common belief is that's how it was but it wasn't it was full-on nude boy time What what's fucked up is that it would have just been great like well If it was if you were like allowed to swim naked with girls At that well, yeah, that would have been awesome. It'd have been great I'd have no problem with the tiny one. It also shrinks up when you go Oh, it totally shrinks up But I think you know, I mean I think if you and like 30 of your closest guy friends were in the pool You'd just be able to say, you know Look at who knows what's going on science and when I was in when I was researching this I found so many blogs of older men being like, yeah A swim in the nude and then just like almost like these therapeutic posts of dudes are like, yeah Yeah, I had to go out naked out there. I mean in Chicago in the 70s. They're all fucking swimming nude still like it's crazy How long it went on? It went on until the 70s and and honestly the The thing that make the red flag to me is that the women always had to be clothed. Yeah, that is a that's an enormous That's just such an inconsistency with every reason why Is that the women had to be in these? If you're ever in any sort of situation and someone says I want the women to be clothed and the boys to be naked It's just weird. Everybody should say that. Let's not do that. It's weird. It's really weird. It's crazy weird All right boys. Let's see those peanut girls. No come on girls. You're fine. Keep your clothes on. Just the boys. I just want to see dicks. Okay. I'm the director of aquatics here It's a it's you're right. It's exactly the Catholic church. It's got a crazy weird pedophile feel to it Yes, and it's pedophile feel and the non pedophiles But also the fact that there were a thousand spectators watching boys swim nude and I was like, yeah And they're like 13 year old boys. No, this I mean honestly like somebody would just be like dog I didn't know you like swimming. He's like, oh, I've always loved Swimming just the way the the the water slowly Drips off of their nipples and they're I mean, I love the fastest. It's important to be the fastest. I also like Children Naked dog dog. I would like to work at the YMCA because I enjoy children And I enjoy watching naked children. I will say that it is it's nice to be back in America Uh, hearing some normal stories as opposed to crazy Australia crazy Australians. All right. Well, that's the dollop Jesus god, what the fuck? Please go leave a A review on itunes. Apparently we were wrong. Um, that does help So go in there if you haven't looked review for the dollop, please go over to itunes and leave a nice review And that'll help us out a lot and don't wear cotton because there's a war and there's a war don't work cotton