 Dave? All right. All right, guys, thanks a lot. Oh, boy. That's my accent. It's not good. It's classic Australian. It's offensive. It's not offensive. They're very happy that I try to do an appropriate Australian accent that is also very similar to the Kiwi accent. And your English accent. I like your marsupials. That took a long time for me to know what word that was going to be. Platypus. Platypus. Jesus, David. It has a beak. Does it have a beak? Does it have a beak? It's not a duck. Does it have a bill? Is it a bill? Hey, guess what? Same fucking thing. I always say that shit more. We should, because we didn't record the part yesterday where we talked about our hero. Or train. Oh, okay. Was anybody at the podcast yesterday? How many? How many people have been to my one? I don't know. I'm not a one man show hothead. Right. How many haven't? Yeah, go fuck yourself. From the bottom of my heart came all the way over here. It's like 19,000 miles to fly. And don't hate. Yeah, I know, right? It's tough. I had to be on a plane. You couldn't give me a little bit of something. All right. Gary's half as funny as me. Wait a second. I do all the work. Yeah. Well, that part's true. We're on the train. We're on the train. And tram, whatever you want to call it. It's like the big bill thing. And there's a guy, and I'm standing talking to Gary. And there's a guy behind Gary, and he has a box of straws. Big box of straws. So he's got things to do. And he goes, excuse me, pardon me. And I go, oh, scoot aside, Gary. And, and the guy gets off and he walks off the tram. And he turns around. He says, as the doors are closing, he just looks at us and he goes, ifty, gifty. I just want to make sure we got that recorded. So that guy knows the impact that he made because for like the rest of the ride, I was like, that dude's fucking awesome. Like, it was like a badass line where he's like, ifty, gifty. Yeah. He knew he was saying the coolest thing ever. Like, like a great guy. All right. Today's guest who will be leaving us halfway through, because she has to go do a more important show, literally more important. You guys feel good about that? She's a, she's a television star, star of television. She has a one person show that was been recycled this year from last year. And I told her I'd go see it. And she held the ticket yesterday and I didn't go. So fuck it. Uh, we've got a man. See you. That is the best introduction I have ever had. Amazing. That was lovely. That's so nice. So wonderful. Yeah. And go fuck yourself. Yeah. Welcome. Now this is right where it's about to start. He's going to say a date. Yeah, I do. You're going to say a date. September 6th. 1861. Is that what normally happens? Do you cheer? William Lane was born in Bristol, England. The else the five sons was and one daughter. So they, you know, sorry, real quick, his name was William, but they called him Bill and you called him beak. Wow. That's for the record. Thanks for coming, everybody. I haven't had any ground rules. Is this us heckling him while he does whatever. Yeah, we don't know. And this is an Australian history story. We don't know. Yeah. Oh, we don't know. You said you, you said we were. Okay. Sorry, Bill. His father, James Lane was an Irish Protestant and his mother Caroline was English. So weird. Okay. The father was a landscape gardener who at the peak of his career employed 20 men, but William's father also conducted his business affairs at the local pub. Nice. And soon ruined the family. So it is an Australian one. Okay, got it. See, I feel like, because Australians, we get a visa to go back to the UK. So I'm going to go back to the UK and I'm going to go back to the UK and I'm going to go back to the UK. So Australians, we get a visa to go back to the UK where we're just allowed and like in the UK, there's a lot of a bit of anti-Australian sentiment, which you feel that's right. It's like, oh, fuck another Australia. But I feel like it's, it's, it's, we're all, it's all Australians are born with this inbrewed thing to go back to the UK like going back to a pub that kicked you out. You just want to turn up back and go, hey, fuckface, remember me? Yeah. Guess what? I'm back. Being American is like easy because everybody likes us. Everyone's like jealous and shit. William promised his mother that he would never drink. Never, ever, ever, ever, ever. So he's going to drink. Okay. His mom died when he was 14. It happens in every dollar. So ripe old age. A teacher gave William enough money to leave home and work his passage to Canada. It's a different time when if your parents died, someone just gave you money and went, hey, go to another country, dude. You're 14. Fuck up. 14. Time to settle down, get some grandkids. The captain of William's ship took a liking to him and at Montreal, he was allowed to live on board until he found a place to actually live. So he got to live on a ship. Seems to be what happens here. A little weird. Soon after his arrival, William took ill and was admitted to the hospital. An orthopedic surgeon at the hospital noticed he had a clubfoot. Hang on. What's that? It's a great bar. Is a clubfoot like missing toes or is it like a big foot? In my head, it's a big foot. I think it's both. I think it's a, you are missing toes, but it's larger and... It's a shitty foot. Anybody have a clubfoot that can explain this to us? Yeah, that guy's got a pipe up. Medically speaking, you have a shitty foot. I had a friend who had a clubfoot as a kid and it was just like a big lump. Bigger, bigger lump foot. That's amazing. To find a way to make feet more gross is incredible to me. All right. One big foot. Got it? Okay. So the doctor offered to operate free of charge. The operation improved the foot, but did not cure his lameness and he was a limpy man. Lamp limper. Lameness. So he's just not cool. Yeah, he was like... They don't have a medicine. Fucking lame ass too. Yeah. It's like, you're still lame though, bro. In 1884, he met and married Anne McGuire, a 19 year old girl from Detroit. Oh, yeah. Yeah, right? It's very exotic. In 1885, the Lane set sail for England with their newly born daughter, but did not remain there long. William's 19 year old brother John was about to follow two younger brothers, Frank and Ertist, who had emigrated to Australia the year before. Soon after his arrival in Brisbane... I don't know, not from what I've heard. In June 29, 1885, Lane confided to his brother that he hoped one day to establish a communist colony. Just classic 24 year old stuff. You hit 24, you're like, man, I want to start a communist colony. Seeing my buddies get together would just be communists. Lane was a freelance contributor to the Brisbane Inquirer and Telegraph and the author of Labor Notes in The Observer. He quickly became one of the most widely read journalists. Quote, wherever there was an overcrowded slum or a case of sweated labor, William Lane would ferret it out and hold it up to public scorn, those who were responsible for such evil conditions. There we go. This one on the confidence of the working class. It was his firm conviction that if capitalism and the wage systems were utterly abolished and a state established in accordance with socialist theories, envy, hatred, malice, and uncharitableness would disappear from the earth, crime would be no more. Communism. And if anyone who's been to Brisbane know that that works, that really works. The limping reporter with the sleight... Jesus. Yeah. That should be a show. Maybe come... I'm coming! I'm coming! Wait! Yeah, he can't like chase the interview down. He's like, slow down! Fuck my fucking leg! I'm going in circles! I've got shitfoot, medically speaking. Oh, shitfoot. On another episode of shitfoot. Is shitfoot just Bigfoot's younger brother? Yeah. And he is real. They're like, we got it. He's right here. Oh, shitfoot. He had a slight Yankee twang and he soon became an influential figure in the center of trade unionism in Queensland. That's where Brisbane is up north. Yes. Queensland. Love it. I'm so glad you asked me about that and not about trade unions. I was like, please don't ask me. In 1887, Lane founded a Bellamy Society. Oh, fuck that. I'm going to repass that. Okay, wait. The Bellamy Society was devoted to... To be honest, the episodes that I've been listening to... Let's just stop for a second. I've been backing up and I've listened to Fires Under Cities and Half Dead Chickens Running Around Forever. And I'm getting fucking trade unions. I don't know how to... Oh, sweet Celia, this will take a turn. Why? This will go south. Something's going to fucking happen. He's going to start drinking or something fucking crazy. We're sitting on a foundation. I was like, I sit on a quarter with a big foot. I'm like, okay. Before the chicken lost his head, you heard the history of chickens for some reason. Yeah. I'm so sorry. It continued. And then you just had a gurgling beast. All right. The Bellamy Society was devoted to the discussion of ideas being put forward in America by Edward Bellamy, the author of the utopian romance Looking Backwards. In this immensely popular book, a young man was treated for insomnia by a hypnotist and woke up in the year 2000 to find America transformed by socialism. Just what the Republicans feared. Anyone who's been to America knows that that works. That totally happened. His weekly paper, The Boomerang, you guys are so... That's amazing. Coming back, gotcha. Yeah. It was an instant success with crusading articles about medical quackery prostitution, the city jail, class distinction, and Brisbane's grammar school, and the yellow peril. I'm sorry. Okay. His first article in a series about the Chinese population of Queensland was headed... Come on. Come on. So that paper's called The Boomer Wang....was titled Sunday Night in a Chinese Gambling Hell. Quote, quote, Sunday night in Chinatown in the hideous plague spot that is spreading like a canker over the old frog's hollow district, and what that will yet rot our whole society if it not be cut remorselessly out. Laying second, a slaw of sloth and deceit and filth and immoralities from which the vigorous white man now strikes in horror. You guys don't like Chinese people. Was that in the newspaper? Yeah, that's a good paper. Yeah, that was in one of your great, great newspapers. Fuck! It was under the op-ed, though. You did give everybody a Rupert Murdoch. I did. I'm sorry. Fair. Yeah, you shouldn't have done that. I'm so sorry. Was that a supporter of Rupert Murdoch? A lone supporter? He's my uncle! Lane believed that the factory worker was the rightful owner of the factory, and that the legal owners of all forms of property were robbing the manual workers of their dues. In 18... Good luck with that. In 1890, Queensland, there was trouble between the sheep farmers and their labor force, the unionized shearers. Oh, wow. Who went on strike. I love that there's guys cutting sheep. They're like, we're not cutting sheep anymore. Yeah, what are you gonna do? Let them grow? That'll be really, really hot! Yeah. Fuck yeah! Watch how Harry these sheep get. Yeah. Then we'll see who's... We have nothing. We have no... We don't have a clubfoot to stand on in this one. So the union shearers went on strike, and their places were taken by non-unionists from Melbourne. Oh no, Melbourne people... Well done, you cunts! Did the Melbourne people just cut like half their hair and then like sweep the rest of it over? And so just to be clear, Dave, you're still gonna be using cunt on the podcast? Yep. Oh, okay. Right, I just said the other day we should stop using the same cunt. We. I say it. Okay, me. The Wharf Labor... Good, I can get behind this. So Melbourne people went up to cut the sheep. The Wharf Laborers Union stated they would handle no wool shorn by quote, black legs, also known as scabs, and declare to strike. Next, the merchant marines, which is the name of the company. Next, the merchant marines joined the movement, and then the coal miners of Newcastle refused to process coal. A general strike was on, and in full force, and industries were paralyzed from August until October 1890. The Brisbane Telegraph called William Lane the man behind the curtain, and said, Lane was a real criminal. The legislative assembly, he was described as, this archfiend who stands behind the men. Hmm. I love that one. They took it hard for the Chinese. This son of a bitch is behind the common guy. Yeah, yeah. Everyone eventually had to go back to work or starve. The unions were defeated. Oh, good. Nice job. Nice job, everybody. The sheep are just too damn hairy. Then they went and they started getting parliamentary representation, running their own people, and the Labour Party emerged. All right. Well, hello. Hello, how are you? Uh, some guy just said sorry. During his time of writing. I'm sorry, I'm representing our country in this, by the way. I'm not very smart. Oh, thank you. Thank you. You are doing very well. You're doing very well. So sweet. That was such a nice... I've never had a positive heckle before. When I say something like that, they're just like, Gary. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, it's Garrett. It is Garrett. Yeah. Our intermission's over. Flash the lights. William Lee in Off-Broaden talked about establishing a cooperative commune, either in Australia or abroad. He wrote, the argument is that if socialism is shown to be practical, it will set such an example and incite such determination in other states that a worldwide revolution will be brought about. And the Chinese will be dead. On May 2nd, 1891, a socialist newspaper announced that the New Australian Settlement Association was to visit South America and negotiate with the Argentine government for settlement of a cooperative community of agricultures and wool growers. The chairman was William Lane. What? Yep. William Lane went to Argentina to talk about our sheep? Oh, he wasn't talking. He's getting ready to move. He's moving! Going to Argentina. Membership of the New Australian Cooperative Settlement Association rose steadily into the hundreds as Oregon Isers moved from town to town recruiting. Upon joining the association, each male member agreed to contribute all the capital he possessed, not to be less than 60 pounds, which was a lot of money, so people were selling their houses to join the New Settlement Movement. Jesus. Right. Yeah, people went out of Australia. Is that that's why they just wanted to get the fuck out of here so bad? They wanted to go and start a communist place in another country. Sure. Sure. And share the sheep. And no Chinese. You look confused. You look confused. Yeah. I wish I could say this is a safe place. I'm doing very well. Yeah, that's true. What? I'm still waiting for a headless ticket. It's all still very... It's the bill. It's the up to... We're going to go down on the coast in no time. Okay, so he's gone now. So he's going to Argentina. Good for him. Fuck off. We don't want you anywhere. Hey, hey, hey. This is one of your people. He's not, though. This guy started the labor party. All right. Okay. The basis for communal organizations stated there would be communal ownership of all the means of production and distribution, communal conduct of production and distribution, communal maintenance of children. Whoa. What? Everybody took care of the kids. There were no parents. Everybody's like, yeah, I guess they're all... Everyone's your dad. Sir Plus Wealth would be divided equally among all adult members. Members, wives, and single women would rank as members equally with men, but unlike men, they would not be required to pay any contribution. Those are like... You say that. Actually, I like that's what you previously do. Those are like... Those are like, swinger party rules. Yeah. The first thing I thought was like, they're all going to be fucking like... There's just some... We share everything here, right, Helen? Don't we, Helen? Wow. And of course, like any communist country... Get ready....would be nigh to anyone not knowing English, any person of color... Oh, okay. Including any married two persons of color, any living together otherwise than in lawful marriage, anyone of questionable reputation, and anyone who didn't really like the labor movement. We're getting there. Okay. As far as the liquor question... Oh, Helen. Membership... members shall pledge themselves to teetotalism. I hate them. Wait, what's teetotalism? No drinking. Oh, okay. See, I love that you don't even know what that word is. That's great. T-teetotalism. Nobody will be eligible for the pioneers, no matter what payments have been made, who is not full white, who is suffering from any contagious disease, or who's not square with his fellow workers. That list is in a crazy order. It's like, nobody who's not white also if you will give a smallpox, no. And don't have a cough. Yeah, no coughing. Two of the most important elements of Lain's socialism were mateship and straightness. Honesty. Not straightness. Tell the truth. Are you white? Yeah. But he wrote, quote, the desire to be mates, the ideal of living together in harmony and brotherhood and loving kindness, if things were once fixed right, we should know more need laws to make healthy men good mates than we need laws to make healthy women good mothers. So he wants mates. What's a bros? That's... That way. So he's like... He's going to Argentina and he's like, we're a fraternity. And... I really... It's gonna be bros. Where the idea of mateship comes from. Is that where it's from? That's the worst. Like we do all Australians like, yeah. I think... Wait, I thought mateship was a boat. I think this is you guys... I think this is you guys exporting mateship to another country. I don't know what. And the theory of mateship is just we're gonna be really tight. Yeah, we're gonna be really good bros. Really good bros. Yeah, like a fraternity, like you said. Yeah, nailed it. Like a white bros. Yeah, sober white bros. That sounds really fun. Sounds perfect. Come on, Will. A non-drinking fraternity. We'll play... No, no. Yeah, yeah. It's the whitest game I can think of. All the numbers are white. Oh my God, a yellow six. Burn it! Burn it! So, a question arose. This is a minefield. Many people ask this question. I wonder what it is. Quote, What will you do with lazy men who will not do as much as the others? Remove them from one branch of labour to another until they reach the very lightest of men's work. Suppose even they pretend to be unable to keep pace with the others. Well, we will put them to work with the women. Who will doubtless show their appreciation of the gentleman who has proved to be a failure as a man. What? Yeah. Alright, that's crazy enough to work, my man. That sounds perfect. That seems like your incentive. Yeah. For sure. It'd be like, I'm not working. Maybe like, go with the women then, but I'd be like, alright, mate ship. I'll see you guys later. I'm gonna go fuck all your wives. Take care, guys. Raise my boy while I'm gone too. All of you. Yeah. Regarding the women in New Australia, Lane wrote, We do not compel either man or woman to marry, but as an association, we scorn the morbid notion that either man or woman was made to be alone. We... Sorry. Sorry. The laugh of a single woman. It really is. The uncomfortable laugh. So much fun. Oh no. I'm reading a lot of trilogies. I really am. I had the most single sort of ever had my whole life. I was going to a show and I was going by myself and I was early and I thought, Oh, it's okay. I've got a book in my bag. And I thought, Oh, it's like I've got a friend in my bag. Oh my God. Oh boy. Oh boy. And then you looked at it and you realized you had also brought your cat. Mom, Dad, this is Carl. He's a soft cover book. We hold a man... You're doing well. I'm doing really well. We hold a man's life incomplete unless he has taken a woman into his heart and enthroned her in a home. Whoa, what? Get in there! Go make pies. Just throw him into our heart? What the fuck is that shit? This is nuanced drawing. Well, there were no doors. Options were... Do they have like a moat as well? Yeah, yeah. You're a woman so you can't even jump very well. So I'll just chuck you. Yeah, just throw him right in. Okay, good. We hold that a woman has lived vainly and without joy unless from among manly men she has freely chosen a husband. All right, so now you're feeling it, right? Now... Okay. The kettle's bubbling. Upon whom in all purity and virtue she can pour out the passionate affection that is in all women's true hearts. So... There will be no compulsion for single women to marry every single girl who joins us can die an old maid if she pleases. Wait, though. That is not a contract. You want me to read that again? Uh, I mean... That's amazing. There will be no compulsion for single women to marry every single girl who joins us can die an old maid. That's nice. This is her to be so erratic. How's that erratic? That's a long-term plan, if anything. But aren't we also... So I'm going to die low now. Like, it's a long process that I am on. You've always got your book. I've got Heaps of Books. Heaps of Books. Okay, Heaps of Books. But aren't they saying that men have to have a woman to be validated? Isn't that part of the... They're saying everybody does, but they're saying a woman... A woman who's also like, also a woman, you could just be erratic and old. Yeah, a woman, if she chooses to die alone in an unfulfilled, horrific life... Because nowadays, we're not fucking allowed to do that. They need a tinder. That's what they need in a backpack. Are men allowed to die alone? Are you allowed to die alone? Are men allowed to die alone? Oh. Our patchwires will be the finest in the world. That means rose ceremony. That's what that means. The finest bachelor's of the world. What does that mean? Strong and honest and manly with the manliness that town life destroys. Will they be manly? The girls that will go will be less than human if these men do not win their hearts and make them loving wives and happy mothers. So it's pretty simple. Oh yeah, it's super simple. You can be a woman and live to be an older maid. Or you can be thrown into a home. You'll be less than human, but that's fine. But if a guy hits on you and you say no, you are less than human. I mean, yeah, it's like today. Nothing has changed. Paraguay is a country in the very center of South America. Paraguay had a recent tragic history at this time. After fighting for its independence from Spain, the country was ruled consecutively by three of the most abusive dictators in South American history. Then it experienced more than 20 revolutions and brought twice to the brink of disaster by international war. Fighting off the combined forces of Uruguay, Brazil and Argentina from 1856 to 1870, the population was reduced from 1800, sorry, 800,000 to less than 250,000. Of these survivors, 150,000 were women, 81,000 were children, and 14,000 were men. Fuck. Wow. That's where you want to go. Those dudes were fucking. Yeah. That was a fuck party. Fuck yeah. So all their dudes were gone. No more revolutions. We're good, right? So it sounds like we need more men up in this bitch, right? Uh-oh. Oh no. We need more shipmates. Mate ships. Which one is it? Bye. Thank you. Later on, over three great continents, our race has spread itself, seeking land to build itself the home which we all desire. Every time we have failed, because we carried the social sin that brings poverty, misery and crime, we are going to live as mates. This might take a little bit of a gay turn. Okay. Well, I don't know. At the moment, there's heaps of women and children and no men. Yeah. But he's going to agree. So what happens? Do they get them to do stuff? I don't know. You're leaving early. You're not going to find out. I know. She has to leave early to do her other shows, so she's not going to know. God, shit. Well done. It's for charity. Do you feel good about that? You hate charities? Do you feel good about that? After the show, do you want to go down to the hospital and scream at some newborns? Is that what we want to do? She's doing a... She's doing a Tony Abbott fundraiser. No, I'm not. So you'll be screaming at babies. Eat the onion. That's the meal they're serving. Everyone's like, and a whole onion, and a whole onion. Where's my fork? No fork. No, just bite it like an apple. Like a sociopath. Eat it like Robert De Niro would in Cape Fear, like that. That's what we need from you. Okay, sorry. Wonderful place. I mean, what do you think went through his head when he bit the onion? Like, he just had to be like, fuck me, that's an onion. Don't make a face. Fuck. Don't make a face. Oh my God, I'm eating an onion. Or it was just like... Or it was like, this apple's off. So, Paraguay was in serious need of dudes. The Paraguayan government gave New Australia their land. In return, the Associations were required to establish 800 families within four years. They paid 1350 for a freight ship named the Royal Tar to bring... The Royal Tar. The Royal Tar. Not a great name. No. And it was the regal feathers. It was to bring 200 men, women and children on an eight-week voyage from Sydney to Paraguay. The settlers gathered in Balmain to await the voyage. You guys know Balmain? Is that a place? Yep, Sydney. It's in Sydney. Okay. In almost no time at all, the New Australians at Balmain had divided into two parties. Those who trusted Lane implicitly and those who continually questioned him. Well, I mean, it does sound like a lie, like, hey, get on this boat, there's heaps of single chicks over there. Like, really? Although no one expected the voyage to last longer than 60 days, the ship was forced to take provisions for 130 days due to Australian law. That sounds like you guys. We're very fucked. The final count of passengers came to 220. 43 of the men were unmarried, but there were only seven single women over the age of 16. Dramatic car crash. Yeah. We timed that well. That guy did a good job. Lane spent much of the time in his cabin because he was upset by an incident that occurred the third week out. Oh, this is exciting. This incident concerned Dave Stevenson and Clara Jones, who often strolled the deck in the evening. One day, Lane posted a notice for bitting single women to be on deck after 6 p.m. No, on dick, you mean? Thank you, Red. Alright, that's dick. After 6 p.m., unless accompanied by their parents, this was... Come on. What the fuck is going on? Why are they taking more women anyway? Yeah, those women were probably like, why are we going? It's like, well, we're going to get you lost in the fray. Guys, start doing push-ups. You're like, travel of women for the trip. Yeah, that's right. It was kind of like, yeah. It was like travel size. This was wildly resented. When Lane came on deck that evening, he was immediately surrounded by a crowd of hostile passengers. His response was to immediately resign. That's going to make you feel real fucking good when you're like, okay, great. Now we're on a boat called the Royal Tar and the dude just quit. Things are happening. Well, his resignation was not accepted. What? They were deterred... Can't do that. They were deterred from... Because they didn't want to change horses in midstream and because... What horses are on a boat? It's just a phrase. It's a phrase. Wait, but that is not a good phrase. They're riding horses. Like, the horses are drowning very fast. Should we change? Oh my God, we should have used a boat. How are you guys doing on the camels? Not great? Not good. No, they're all drowning. This isn't a river either. They were also deterred by the fact that Lane held the mortgage on the boat. Ah, God. That's going to be horrible when you're like, no, don't resign, fix. I'm out of here. Clara Jones continued to walk the deck when she pleased. Lane kept to his cabin like a sulky child and came out only on deck at night. He had a special table built near his cabin which he and his wife dined with a few chosen friends. A passenger recounts a petty dispute about cutlery. At the start of the voyage, everybody put in what they had to the common mess stock, plates, cups, spoons, knives, and forks, etc. At the start of the voyage, there was more than enough for everybody, but during the early part of the voyage, many had meals on deck and in consequence, a lot of these things went overboard. Ha ha ha ha ha ha! Ah, it hit! Because they're eating on the thing and then they're... Oh, okay. Oh, shit! Oh, no! Ah, one of the single women fell. Oh, no! It's like this shit we're floating on. It's moving. What's up with this moving floor? We should eat in the middle. We should eat in the middle. When Lane moved to his private table, he took out the full complement of utensils from our tables to use theirs. When he was confronted about this, it was pointed out to him that more than one half of the utensils had been lost and that they were short now and he said, quote, oh, you can't expect us to stand the loss if you don't look after your things. Socialism! Ha ha ha ha! What a good guy. I don't see how this is going to go wrong. No, no, we're on a good path for sure. The Royal Tar arrived on Monday, September 11. The Royal Tar! And the capital of Uruguay and Lane went ashore to visit the Paraguay consul. Before leaving the ship, Lane posted a notice forbidding anyone to go ashore until he returned. Several passengers announced that they were going ashore in the morning no matter what. Several members went ashore, including two women. When they returned, four men were roaring drunk. Some of Lane's supporters greeted the tourists with cries of scabs. Quickly a brawl developed. It got to high words on both sides, then to blows and a few rush for knives. The women and children... But they don't fall on overboard. I've got a spoon! Throw the napkin at him, throw it! Ha ha ha ha ha! The women and children were screaming below and the men were rushing on deck. One man from the drink was so excited and quite dangerous that he was locked up in the front of the ship until morning. At the general meeting the next evening, Lane offered free passage back to Australia on the Royal Tar for any member who wished to return. There were no takers. Well yeah, because they were just like, we just went on this fucking boat forever, asshole. The Temperate's Claws remained. But the drinking continued. On Thursday morning, September 28th, the colonists reached the new site of New Australia. It's so funny, like, dick delivery! We bring you dick delivery! Penis! We bring you lots of penis! Within two months there were two contending factions identified as the Royalists and the Rebels. The Rebels were of two types. There were a few who persistently broke the rules, particularly drinking. And there were many others who just became increasingly suspicious. They just needed to have a drink, relax! It turns out that most of the Rebels had come to Paraguay in the hopes of bettering themselves materially. So they're not communists, they're going for a cashmere. The Royalist Walker Head wrote, The captain of the native police informed us that some of our members were stealing tools and exchanging it for liquor, and that one man had promised a native that if he could get him a native woman, he could have one of our girls. Helen! I'll give you a brown one for a white one! That doesn't work on two levels for these guys, right? No. The rules relating to drinking were fragrance broken, and one man openly announced his intention to bring a native woman into the colony to live with him. Amazing. Patty Lynch... Oh, fuck. I mean, there's a guy named Patty Lynch. And Charles Manning came to blows when Manning accused Lynch of setting fire to some of his statching grass. And while the fight... That means pubic hair? Yes. What is snatching grass? I think it's what you put on the side of your little hut or whatever. Have you ever seen Gilligan's Island? Oh, thatching! I heard snatching. I heard snatching. Snatching grass. I heard snatching. Yeah, he's just like... Snatching grass, he's like, what do you think you're supposed to do with it? I snatched it. Fuckin' buddy. It's grass that's grown on the vagina. And while the fight was in progress, Manning was advised by someone in the crowd to take an axe to his opponent. And someone else in the crowd is like, you're doing well! We're a couple days in, it's going great, you guys. How many days? Two days in? He's like, get an axe! Kill him! John Sabaldi was in charge of the mail, was accused of opening Rebels letters, and they spread a rumor that one of his... well, the prospectors had four illegitimate children at Eos, all fathered in one night when he'd been surveying the colony. Whoa! Surveying the colony. Wasn't all he was surveying, yeah. There's a mate. Wow, there's a lot of grass here that needs to be... Lot of grass. Time to play ball. So Lane, during this time, spent a good deal of time in the capital registering the association, whatever that means. Unfortunately, he did it quietly, which led the Rebels to believe a land swindle was being done. When he returned to the colony, he was accused of double dealing in deceit and was told that the majority had lost confidence in him, and he offered to resign when the next past of colonists arrived. No, you can't resign! Two months. Three men, including Tom Westwood, received the following notice. You are hereby notified that you have been expelled from New Australia Cooperative Selma Association for your persistent and willful violation of the clause in mutual agreement signed by you relating to liquor drinking. A wagon will be ready for you at seven o'clock tomorrow morning to take you and your things to the train station. If you remain on the colony after that hour, or if you return to the lands of the colony, you will be removed by police. One of the men was still in the capital and never returned. Westwood and the third refused to leave, and the next morning, a group of armed police with swords and guns evicted them. Westwood took his blindsome with him. So this is a cool group of dudes. Yeah. They kicked out the blind kid. Yeah. They just told me it was going to Disneyland, though, guys. On Saturday, Lane was presented with a petition for separation signed by 19 men. By the end of December, New Australia had lost slightly more than one-third of its population. From what? Axewordns? What? 81 people in all. On the last day of 1893, the royal tar left Adelaide with 199 new passengers. They were to have been 204, but two men were denied passengers because they were drunk. I might give it on that ship. There's no fucking spoons. Two others decided not to go when they realized that the temperance rule would be enforced, and one man just missed the boat. Well, that guy was drunk, too, probably. The guy sells his house, and waits around for months, and he's like, Ah, fuck! Ah, daylight savings! There was more entertainment on the second voyage to Paraguay. The men fished, bit-on-porpuses racing. What? What? Porpoises racing alongside the ship. They bit-on-porpuses. Amazing. What would you do? Uh-uh. I mean, I do it, but not on purpose. I have to go. I actually have to go. That's actually... Are you leaving on that? That's actually her exit line. Celia! Wow. Alright. Did Nick Cody show up? Are you here, Nick? Okay, Nick did not show up, so he's a cunt. Alright. So we are using cunts still, just to be clear. Just when we're in Australia. Oh, sure. Yeah. Oh, there's Nick. Oh, nope. Oh, is it Tommy? Yeah, come on up, Tommy. Tommy Dosselow! What is he? Guys are a native at Dumcun. Here I am. A little fact about Tommy. Tommy, his name is not originally Tommy Dosselow. He picked it. He chose that name. Oh. Are we doing a dollop about Tommy? Why? A dollop? He thought it sounded unique. Yeah, and I'm correct. I was correct. Fuck, I'm drunk. Oh, you're going to fit right in with this voice. You can act out some of the scenes. You know, have you heard where we are? I got here and then I left to go get some KFC. Oh my God, shout out to the Colonel. I haven't known him that long, but the number of times he said to me, I left to go get KFC, it's fucking remarkable. He ate like the chicken. Alright, so some asshole is taking a bunch of people to Paraguay where they're going to set up a new Australia. Right, okay. And there's no drinking. No drinking, some of them are drinking. And you're not allowed to fuck anybody who's not white. Yep, and one guy is fucking a non-white and they don't like him and he almost got axed. It's a hell of a podcast you guys have got. What, is this previous episode to this show? No, this is today. Oh, okay. This is not like Rat Dad. Did you just call it Rat Dad? Rat, but Rat Dad would be awesome. Please do one episode of Rat Dad. I think that might be happening in about an hour's time. Okay, so the men bet on porpoises. They're gambling on porpoises. They played cricket using a ball on a long string. Well, is the bowler's just always got it. He's always like, yeah, you're out. Four on that. At night there were boxing matches on the side of the deck and dancing on the other. After a fight... This sounds awesome. After a fight between two families of passenger remarked, we have a very poor spirited lot of married women, although there are one or two nice ones. Have a meet near the side, like the cutlery. Back in the colony, Lane was very depressed by others leaving and spent hours in gloomy introspection. So he's just like a depressed pussy, basically, right? Yeah, he's just like in his place, like, my idea was bad. I thought we were gonna have like a knot drinking. Everybody loves each other, mate party. I tried to resign. Although his wife had just recovered from childbirth and pneumonia. Oh, cool. Those go well together. Lane decided that she should return to Australia on the Royal Tar to enroll single women. You know, like how a pimp does. Love that she's got pneumonia and he's like, get on the boat or you could die! Sorry, now you got nothing. No, go. You're free to say things. Sorry. As the new rivals made their way to the settlement, they were met in the capital by the rebels, the separatists. Some of whom tried to discourage them. And Lane, who had rushed there to try and meet them first, the rebels managed to change one mind, 60 year old William Kempzen, who walked, who wanted to go straight back to Australia. And as he was struggling with his bags, he walked right up to Lane and punched him in the face. Jesus, 60 years old. That's like 130 now. Within a week, three men had walked off without a word. The second week, 12 followed. At the main settlement, there were arguments about sharing of cattle, which were being slaughtered one a day. Tongues were supposed to be distributed in turn, but as one settler complained, many of us never saw the tongue. That's what I had just to say before. That was also the complaint of the wives. It was the start of the tongue wars. During April, Lane and his supporters, 63 in total, now they're down to 63. How many did they start with? They started with 200. It's going real good. So they decided to start a new colony. New Australia! He wrote to his editor of the New Australian, Walter Head, said, money if you can, we're starting anyway, even if we have to live on corn. Lane then cabled his wife and asked her to return. She decided to wait 10 months. You know what? I'm good here. You go off to your new colony where you're going to live on corn, and I'm going to stay with the kids and eat food and stuff. During their last few days together, the two parties came more hostile towards one another. One of the men wrote, at a meeting this morning, Simpson wanted Mabbitt to take his shirt off and settle matters that way. And I took my revolver out. Hey, hey, take it off! Take it off. Let's get our shirts off and settle this. We're going to settle like mates. Showing you the tongue. Just get our nipples together, mate. That really is so homoerotic. You know, he's like, shirts off and we'll figure it out. A little gentle kissing and we'll figure it out. All right, let's take bottoms off. All right, bottoms off and then we'll figure it out. Okay, I'm inside you! All right, we're figuring it out. Straight meeting you! Jesus, I just figured it out all over your back. Oh my God. Oh my God. You really figured me out, man. You really, really figured me out, man. Can I get a beer? Is that okay? Can we figure that out? What, you want someone to put a beer up your ass? Yeah, cool. Like a mate! I'm starting a new colony. It's called the Colony. Colony? Well done, mate. Cheers, mate. The crowd was calling each other liars and bastards and such like and saying they would settle things. Now, Lane and the others left on May 12th, 1894, eight months after arriving. Jesus. So it took them a whole eight months for everything to fall apart. On their way to the temporary camp, eight men left. He, I mean, this, he must be turning around like, wait, weren't we a bigger group? We lost two, right? The settlers took wagons and 56 of them arrived at their new settlement named Cosme, 30 miles away from New Australia. Now, New Australia had 217 colonists spread among three camps. Most of the original separatists, the rebels, accepted a government offer of land at Colonia Gonzales, a government colony. But they were neglected after a bloodless clue began to, and we had to hope the Australian government would save them. Like, they're like, hey, you know, we just fucking bailed on you guys because you think your shithead's, hey, can you help us out a little bit? They heard the premiere of New South Wales was eager to pay them to return and to set a good example for the people in Australia. You might think they're going to New Australia. It was worthwhile. 25 somehow raised train fares to Buenos Aires, the British prime minister, to describe them as perfectly destitute. Oh, hi, beer. Hi. Oh, look, a little friend. Hey. Thanks, man. We are not in New Australia. We are in Australia. We are in Australia. So 25 went to Buenos Aires. The minister cabled a London asking whether the New South Wales government would pay for passage to Australia, and the government said no. Good. More people followed. The rebels colony had deteriorated so much that whole families were in danger of dying from hunger. But they have corn. Maybe people were hungry. The hallingsworth was seven children and the McNamara's with five children spent nine months in Buenos Aires waiting to receive some passage money to Australia. For part of this time, Mrs. Hallingsworth was too sick to work. Mrs. Annie Little waited at New Australia with five children while her husband went to Buenos Aires in search of work. But there he lost one of his hands. What? I hope you mean a helper. What were those two last names? Hallingsworth, McNamara, and Little. Okay. Hollow and Macca. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Pandering. After he lost one of his hands, he went to England. How did he lose his hand? It doesn't say. He just, look, Argentina's weird. You just lose your hands sometimes. I'm not going there. He got a bit too into figuring it out, maybe. A figuring it out session gone horribly awry. Oh, he's like, this way won't feel like me. This is my wife. My wife. My wife. My wife. My wife. My wife. My wife. My wife. This is my wife, my hand. This sounds like a monkey pot. Anyway, Dave, you were saying? I love podcasting. After ten months, after ten months of no news from her husband, Mrs. Little wrote the Queensland government to ask for help, and there's no further record of what happened to her. Oh, thanks for the fucking ending. One Australian and Buenos Aires died of lead poisoning, another mother of two was left by her husband. So everyone's just fucking off, and it's every man for himself. I don't know the story, but I've got a pretty good feeling about how it pans out, I gotta say. Everything's going to work out. All right, for these guys. Yep, just got to wait on that letter across the ocean. Move pretty quick. Remember Westwood, who was kicked out, he and his son did return to Australia, and despite his blindness, he became a successful violin teacher. So there's one. You got one guy that will... That's it for sure. I mean, he's still fucking, he's still blind. Blind violin teacher? That's a really hard game to crack. Well, not then. I think that everyone wanted... I can teach your son whatever he needs. We're over here. I can teach your boy how to play. Where's that violin? Can someone put it in my hand? Put it in my hand, and I'll show you. Oh, that's funny. It's an orange. No, give me a violin. Violin, please. Are you guys here? Are you guys still in here? Washington Sorenson, an 18-year-old man, was...this is my favorite Australian in the whole story. Washington Sorenson, an 18-year-old man, was one of the first separatists to reach Sydney. Washington arrived on September 7th, 1894, after stowing away and working his passage for 30,000 miles through Argentina, Chile, Germany, England. He told the evening news he did not regret the loss of his 60 pounds association fee, as he had had whips of fun for his money. He went on holiday. What a fucking time, mate! All you gotta do is not follow any rules, and you'll have a fucking blast. How did that term go out of style? Whips of fun. Yeah, whips of fun. Let's bring it back. Let's bring it back. Everyone's tweeted about this gig, whips of fun at the dollop tonight. Whips. Now, members of the association were beginning to wonder about their money. It was supposed to have depended on a savings account. I bet it was. From which it could be withdrawn when a member was enrolled from migration to the colony, or if the member deciding not to go reclaimed the money he had paid. It turns out the savings account did not exist. It was not. The funds had been used to fix up the royal tar. Walter Head wrote to William Lane, the association is bung up here. It's a great letter already. The irony of it all is that I will probably go to jail over it. Nice blank position, ain't it? With his wife and children, Walter Head intended to accompany members of the new Australia movement to Paraguay. His eldest son, Wally, had already left for Paraguay and had not returned. He was in the colonies. So they were playing Where's Wally? Don't they call it something else here? Where's Waldo? No, that's what you call it. We call it Where's Wally? No, you call it fucking hell. I did the Google translation. Go ahead, Tommy. You call it Where's Waldo and we call it Where's Wally. But why does... Where are both of them? Why does Carl dress like him? Someone who's not in the room getting a round of applause, cool. Um, I don't know, yeah, he just does. All right, good answer. Because he's got one joke about him and it has to sync up. That's the best. Yeah. It's so, so sad when you have one joke about Where's Wally. So then you have to dress like him forever. And people don't know who your fucking show is. Well, it's cool because then girls never want to fuck you. It's worth it. So Walter had resigned and left for Melbourne as the far as the association had concerned, he disappeared forever. He settled in Tasmania and under the name of Walter Allen Woods, he continued to use until his death at the age of 78. He led a new life and he was known as one of the founders of the Tasmanian Labor Party, a member of the Tasmanian House of the Assembly for 17 years and served two terms as Speaker of the House. So you had a fucking guy who ever thought it was imbeciled money and he just left to intend Tasmania and work in the government. When you stay on top of shit. Yeah. When you say that these two ladies down the front row were like, the Tasmanian Labor Party, fuck yeah, like so intimate. Yeah. They're the shit, mate. The new president of the colony, Gilbert Casey, took possession of the books and had them audited. Mrs. Lane returned to Peregrine and within a few days of being there, her son Charles was killed when a cricket ball struck him above the heart. They should have used the one with the string. They should have. Somebody stop that. Oddly, it was pulled by Walter Head. The guy who threw it was like, how is that? Fuck. Lane decided to sell the royal tar to cover debts. So now they don't have a boat. Jesus. Rules were changing in the new colony. Groups were now allowed to work in isolation because of so many fractures. Quote, profuse apologies were made for the Birks family. It was not asked to join the Sibald Reguas settlement, but the truth is they do not want the Birks family. Old Armstrong asked if Kiff and me join them, and when I told him it would depend on where my parents went, he hummed solo and mournful tune but said no more. That's a great way to handle awkward situations. They take care. You want to join the Birks family? I'll see you around, bud. Thanks. The Sibalds did not want us at all. We should not have gone at any rate. The inclusion of the Jenkins family alone would have stopped us, and I can't stand the Sibalds or Armstrong's. And Mrs. Oh, it's one of the nastiest women here. Busy-bottling, gossip-scandal-loving, loud-voiced, foul-mouthed, ignorant, spiteful, deceitful, and her husband's a brute. So things are going well. They're working shit out. The wheat was attacked by rust. It was discovered that... What? It's a rusty thing. The wheat was attacked by rust? It's not an actual rust that you find on metal. It's a wheat attacking thing. Okay, sorry. It's like a bacterial... Anyway, it was discovered! Well, I bet when you were typing that out, you were like, I want to get caught on this. I'll be fine. This will just go under the radar. No one's going to pick up on this. It was discovered that two men, Jack Vance and Bob McLevy, had been rustling the colony's cattle and horses. Vance was taken into custody by the police, and there are no records of his fate. McLevy disappeared with a stolen rifle and revolver, and was never heard from again. The wife of Casey went to South Africa and married Billy Donald. One of the second waivers settled on the Royal Tar. Casey took a Paraguayan wife, Maria Antonias Oza. He remained president of the colony, which was still receiving new settlers from Australia. Jesus. You fucking idiots are still going! That is terrible. So what does rustling the cattle mean? They're stealing cattle. Okay, I just want to make sure it was stealing and not, you know... Resting it? Oh my God. Getting your shirt off. Figuring them out. If they were about a cattle wrestling league, it would have been amazing. Today there would still be a Paraguayan cattle wrestling league. There probably is. The PCW. So after the cattle, so the cooks went on strike. The coats? They were like, take us off your back. We're done. The cooks. The little cuts. I heard coats. The coats went on strike. We're tired of keeping you warm. Revolution! Please take us off. After some cattle had been sold at disappointingly low prices, the colony's only steady source of cash was the Paraguayan government, which hoping to stem the tide of departure started paying a monthly subsidy of 800 pounds. So now they're in another country on the fucking dole. That's pretty fucking Aussie, Matt. One after another, various heads of departments, justices and secretaries started to resign and drifting into nearby villages. By October, the colony had almost completed the transition from communal to individual ownership. Cattle were divided up, each family till the separate block of land and sold its own crops. And in January, 1897, the assets were sold. And their value equally divided among the remaining members over the age of 18. Socialism! Yeah, we got it. We nailed it! The Paraguayan government gave each colony 110 acres of land. I mean, Jesus Christ. Yeah, that's how land, yeah. It's just insane. They're just a bunch of fuck-up cunts. That's all of our ancestors, Matt. Fucking chill out. Yeah, you can have more land. Yeah, you got more land. You want more land? Yeah, all right, cool. Take your... Why? This was the end of New Australia and the beginning of New Wave, Australia with 86 adults and 75 children. They're still sticking with like the new theme, though. So now it's all private ownership, personal freedom. It worked out. And no restrictions on alcohol. Oh, okay. Now, the first three weeks of Cosme, William Lane's new settlement, in July 1894, there were around 16 families, 38 single men and 10 single females. Oh, boy. That's like... I wouldn't do that, Mouth. Yeah. That's not... Wait, what was it, 38 single men, 10 single females? 30 and 38 men and 10 women. It's like the audience for any given live podcast. Yeah, yeah, bros. The basis for the new association. Common work for common needs. Purity of living to be clean white, no intermixing. At least they're sticking to some of their morals. And drink to be excluded. It sounds great. So you can't fuck all the tons of single women that are everywhere, and you can't drink. It sounds like a great plan. Two acres of scrubber cleared and they're planted with vegetables. 40 head of cattle were bought. One of these was killed each week for food, and then they made shoes with them. Perfect, yeah. They were never in danger of starvation, but the food became inadequate and they can no longer slaughter a bull a week. It turns out after 40 weeks, you're at a bull's. Yeah, yeah. But the shoes. Dave, the shoes. Sick kicks. So good. Yeah. But that's how the Uggs came from. They did start a newspaper. Oh, I can't wait for the title. And it was read aloud each night in the dining room. Quote, an eel a foot long was caught yesterday. There ought to be whips of eels in the swamps, and they are good eating. Isn't that just like giving people up? Yeah, that's just something you should tell people. But you don't need a paper that just one guy reads. There's food in the river! The front page, an eel was caught. It's a slow day. It really is pretty slow. Another day, another article. Murdered a monkey and shot a bird. I would buy that paper. Third article, the landlord from hell. Charging too much rent and doing nothing to fix the house. Harry Taylor brought home two monkeys today, and his relatives devoured the corpses. Oh my God. Monkey, whether it be a low class lemur or the most intelligent of apes, is indeed a dish fit for a king. If you're on the royal tar, yeah. Over the months, the colony's evening paper began to write a joke ads, such as, Boy caught the chinky and saved yourselves from yellow agony by buying your vegetables from a white gardener. Right, that's a very good joke. Baxter's shoes, nigger tickler cogs. I mean, they're good funny ads. Household furniture made on the premises, no China men in the workshops. It was so nearly not racist. Yeah, it was almost a great joke. I think you ever can enjoy this. Yeah, asshole furniture. That's what every chair is, really. We do have a new most horrible name for the Chinese, I think, which is Yellow Agony. That's really, you guys really topped yourself. That's Chlamydia, right? The koalas have Yellow Agony. In 1896, the Paraguayan government officially proclaimed Cosme a colony and agreed to establish a post office. What's going on with the Paraguayan government? They're like, yes, okay, whatever you need. Just name it whatever you are, do your fucking thing. Just stop coming here. They just want sperm. They only want sperm. Because it's just women, there's like 100,000 women going, someone fuck me. How far is the flight to Paraguay? So 72 families settled there within two years. In October 1895, William Lane suffered a near fatal illness, almost dying from dysentery. That's good. That's how you know your community is going well. Well, I mean, he almost died from diarrhea. Yeah. Deserved. As he recovered, he wrote to a trustee back in Australia, Be sure of this, God is with us. It is the truth. I could not have been nursed back to health better. Everybody in the colony is good to me. Another columnist wrote a letter to the same trustee, Lane tried the patients of our nurses, wanted all his own way, and took Brandy and wine like a babe does to the breast, but insisted on calling it tonic. So, whoa. The Sydney bulletin reported that the latest rumors that the members of Lane's colony are suffering from elephantitis. Oh my God. Do you know what that is? It's when you're, yeah, it's when you're shit. Like your balls just go like, oh, it'll be like an elephant's ball. Well, it's not always balls though. I mean, when I get it is. It might just be blue balls, Dave. Oh, I took it all back. It is blue balls. Yep. Elephantitis was only your balls all. It would have a different name. Now there were 49 men, 19 women, and 27 children, 33 bachelor's, and three single women. Holy shit. We've lost. We had 40 men and 10 women and seven women were like, I'm out of here. No. I don't like my options with all the men somehow. William Lane then left to go to England to gather more recruits. He did not find any. The colony started to go downhill as soon as he left in October. It started to go downhill? It's like they made a new hill at the bottom of the hill. In October, a 12 month old fell down a well and drowned. A man was crushed to death in the sugarcane processor. Oh man. Wait, a man was crushed to death in the sugarcane processor. Jesus Christ. That is a way to go. That supervisor's fired. That's a hell of a work cover out though, for the guy that almost got crushed. Yeah. And they don't have a newspaper anymore that they're reading at night. His last words were, it's so sweet. I'm having whips of death. The local river flooded and one of the three single women left to return to Adelaide. So now we're down to two women and 33 dudes. And to Adelaide of all places. What a fucking burn. So the river overflowed and she was like, that's it? Or did she just jump in the river and was like, this has to lead to something. Plus there are a lot of guys with just giant balls from what I've read. And huge boners. Just like, where are you going? No. Which maybe she was really into the dude who got crushed in the sugarcane processor. He was a sweetie. I love you, Gareth. I love you, Tommy. Mate. We're sharing. Mate. Sorry. Mate. Mate. What's happening? Are you saying to mate him? Yeah. Mate with Tommy? Make a new docileo. We can name the baby anything. Yeah. The new year began. This is great. The new year began with the arrival of six more dudes. Oh, joy. People are still coming. Were any men? I didn't get that part. Well, I'm sure they're wired. I'm sure they're idiots. And three children. So three people were like, Eric, this would be a good place for my kid. Let's send our boy to hell. Lane was giving lectures in England the whole time. And by February 1897, what were his lectures on? How to be the worst. They were like, communism is awesome. Trust me. I invented New Australia, New Vo Australia, nothing. And then Lane decided to wait until the end of the summer to return, but then ended up staying another year. What a fucking prick. He's just off in fucking England, living off the association's money, like, let's go good down there, you guys. You guys having a good time? Yeah. How's the monkey meat? Oh, my teeth. The newcomers at Cosme did not fit in. Old settlers and new arrivals began quarreling with each other and among themselves. By September, one man ran off with another's wife and the whole family left the colony, headed in separate directions. Five men took a leave of absence and never returned. The village chairman and secretary resigned. Once Lane returned from England, a dispute over a pig that was slaughtered and not shared with the entire colony caused even more factions to form. By June, the total loss to Cosme was 19 men, eight women, 11 children, a third of their population. Fucking pig. It's not good. Fucking pig ruined everything. Didn't share any of the pig around. Shitblood. Yeah. Fuck that. So he came back and then immediately announced that he was resigned. Did someone tell him he was doing well? He was like, fuck, you guys, England was great. I'm going to tell you this. I came back to say I'm out. I'm good. See, like a good plan, though. He wrote to an old friend, quote, the devil of the labor movement is having to work with dirty tools. To me, this labor movement is trying to build walls of sand against an incoming tide of destruction. It's hopeless. Great. So he bailed. Yeah. Now, 38 years old, his wife and his four children arrived in Auckland, New Zealand. Sorry, his four what? Children. I said it weird. You sure? They went to New Zealand and by 1900, he was writing for the New Zealand Herald. His career there was highly successful and he played an important role in New Zealand public life. From 1913 on, he wrote under the pen name to hunger. What? Mayory for profit. Come on, that's worse than Dastalos, surely. He's just a dude who started a colony where some people died and everything got fucked up who then started calling himself a prophet. Okay. After stirring the nation to join World War I as loyal British subjects and losing a son at Gallopoli, William Lane... This is Dave Sand-Lightmare. What did I do? I said, hello, is am I right? Did I say it wrong? Yeah, you absolutely said it wrong. They weren't supporting how you said it, Dave. How do you say it? I say it the way it's spelled. Apologies. How do you say it? And what did you say? Gallopoli. It's not how it's spelled. It's really got fucking pissed over that. So you guys want to say it like there's an I instead of an A? Dave, we're in their land. I get it. I get it, some shit happened there or whatever. Oh, cool. Is nothing sacred on the dob? We've had a great time in Melbourne. You guys were just about to get booked to do this podcast at the ANZAC March next week and now you've fucked it right up. Thanks Dave. Get the batteries. Get the what? Batteries, get the batteries. Get the batteries. In Philadelphia people threw batteries. Our country's far better. A call to arms. What about the juice, everyone? Let's go. So, Gallipoli? Yeah. We love you guys. How about the fucking British were cunts there, huh? You guys went off and fought and they fucking stayed behind. It's a myth. Dave, you're going to be mayor of this town if you don't watch it. Now I'm calling it Gallipoli again. So good. Oh, fuck. We had him. William Lane died of bronchitis in August 1917 at 55 years old. He had a cough, now he's dead. By 1908, nine members remained at Cosmic. Oh my god. How at that point are you not like fuck it? Nine. There's nine guys. They were bidding their time until the land could be theirs. A final document, divvying up the remaining land was signed in August 1909, 16 years after the Royal Tariff left Rostrea, most settled into the life of individual farming, sugar crushing and timber gathering. Some lived there for almost 30 years. Fucking nine dudes. It's just nine dudes. Eventually Australians and Paraguay lost identity. Young men of the second and third generations took Paraguay and wives. The languages were learned and many families became Catholic. In 1917, a member of the Australian Parliament asked for help to repatriate those poor white Australians in Paraguay. Schoolies week, the original schoolies week. Get up there boys, let's go. I don't know what schoolies week is. Spring break. Oh, schoolies week. I like it. Yeah. Please come back next year and do a live dollop on the Gold Coast for schoolies week. That'd be fucking incredible. We'll do it in Galapaly. We'll start the kickstarter now. We'll have enough money within half an hour. Schoolies week? Yeah. I don't know if it's in your history, but was that, was Galapalaya schoolies? Fucking hell. We could do a Galapal. A Galopcast. Oh God, you guys, you guys really hold on to that one. So you changed my fucking name. No, no. And they've tweaked it. You got laughed at for Galapaly for one second. You made my name fucking Gary. It's all relative, or Gaza, sorry. Gaza. Don't help Tommy. Gaza. Tommy changes his name by his own, like he wants his name changed. Yeah. Cool. Very supportive. So the Australians wanted to return the poor white Australians to Paraguay. The reply for British authorities in Argentina said no distress exists amongst the families of Australians who have settled at Cosmea New Australian. Jesus. Around 2,000 Paraguayans of Australian descent live there today. Yeah, how about that? You guys. You fucking, you son of a... There's a lot of stuff in that elephant tightest nut bag. Oh, the Lord. That was it. Sorry, was that a bad one? Classic. Yeah. Here's the deal. So people kept sending me ideas and they'd be like, what about these convicts who escaped? They'd be like, it's fucking awesome. This convict, he escaped and he ate all his friends. How great is that? And then I'd be reading the story, I'd be typing it up and they'd get to the part where I'd be like, oh, and then he killed a baby and it's a tree. And they'd be like, oh, I don't want to do that story. He just got a frame of his broad choice. There's another one, this guy escaped and had a great time. Oh, and then he raped a bunch of women. Oh, I can't do that one. So your fucking history is fucked up. Wait, is it too late for you to do an entire episode about the history of Hai Hai on Saturday? That would be something. Is that spring break? At times, yeah. It's spring break once a week. I'm doing a Galapally one. It's amazing they get sadder every time I say it. We had 9-11! That's four. Fuck. Get the batteries, Dave. Got him. He's actually, he's right. We didn't write for it. We heard back. We were like, hey, will you fly a couple planes in our buildings? I miss that part. We said, as I recall, okay, so look. No, no, Dave. 9-11's an inside job. Dave, Dave, Dave, David, David, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave. We gotta go back Wednesday. Remember that. We're going back Wednesday. Welcome back to the Jet Fuel Can Melt Steel Banescast. So good. Oh, and there's just fuel tanks in Building 7? Really? David, sit down. Okay, sorry. Sorry. Jesus Christ. Good God. We liberated the world. We spread freedom on the map. It worked. The proof is in the... It worked. I would also... I would also like to take a moment to thank the Australians for following us into every really stupid war. I appreciate it. We got your back in the onion battle. Don't you doubt it. All right, well, we covered 9-11 at the end, so I guess we're done. Eh, you guys all right? Hey, can I ask a personal question? It wasn't as what? What kind of tablet is that? Oh, boy. It's a Surface. Okay. Why? It's wonderful. I keep your eyes on it if I were you. It's great to watch movies on. Like, an iPad is shaped like a fucking asshole. But this is shaped letterbox, so when you watch stuff, it's actually like... So you can't, like... I'm gonna get out of here....stupid orientation? Fuck, I've turned into Ronnie Chang. Just questioning someone else about their technology. What's with that tablet? What brand is that? It's for that's calipoli. No, I like it. I like it. I just want to know what it is. You fucking American assholes. You come in here, disrespect the Anzacs. So fucking stupid. Here's a Surface RT, not a Surface 3. It's so fucking stupid. I don't have an impression of him. So... He appreciates it. Hey, thanks for coming out, Nick Cody. Hey, thanks very much for having me, guys. I appreciate it. Thanks, Tommy. Thank you. Bye, Ron. Why would you not do it? I did it the other night at the... Why would you not? We're gonna save it for the drunk cast. Yeah. The eye contact he made with me there... was like he was starting a colony. Okay, so that was probably the most bureaucratic doll we've ever done. But you guys kept killing babies, so... That was fucking crazy, yeah. Yeah, alright. You got anything else to say? No. He is so... Yeah, boo. He is so... Fuck you! He is so over that one. It's so fucking... It's like a place where I go to do stand-up. Fuck off. It's like a club. Like, they... How do you think it... Like, on my Twitter, what do you think that club is thinking? Like, oh, that's normal that everybody just says that all the fucking time. Leave me alone about it! Gallopoli! Wow. I guess the drunk cast has started. You guys, thank you very much! To surface!