 Um, Shiniqua was popular, uh, up until like 1998, and then it isn't really used anymore. The name? Yeah, that's true. It's some of the facts I picked up on the internet while researching for the dollop. Oh good, yeah, glad you found yourself. It has nothing to do with this story, but sometimes we'll do the dollop dollop. Yeah, sure. This is a dollop within the dollop. And Shiniqua's popularity died down around 96. It's good. This is my favorite thing I've ever heard was walking on the street in Brooklyn and there's two young African American gentlemen walking past me and one goes, man, Shiniqua's got some big, big titties and I just started laughing on the street. Cause she did. Yeah, I'm sure. Yeah. Okay. So this episode is titled. You're excited. I am excited. Yeah. This episode, I'm going to call this one Dolphin. Oh, wow. I mean, yeah, where's your mind go? Wow. I'm genuinely worried because it just seems limitless. Yeah. It could be people who fuck dolphins. It could be people who use dolphins to fuck. Right? How come it's just about fucking? I don't know. I think it's, I just, that's where I'm going. Right away I'm going there. By the way, if you enjoy us, follow us on Twitter at the dollop and on Facebook, we have a dollop page and please leave a review on iTunes. Dave, are you excited, bro? Are you excited? Yeah. Yeah. May 14th is the next live virtual dollop. We'll be doing another dollop with looped live. It'll be a 6pm Pacific time. We are doing another live virtual dollop. These shows are crazy. They have a lot of like media in them, videos and pictures. Dave, it does a very great job and they've all been very fun. So we want everyone to join us for what some people are calling the event of the decade. Arby's, we've got the meats. No, no, no. Wrong copy, Dave. Wrong copy. This is for the, yeah, just stick to what we're doing. So May 14th, looped live, 6pm Pacific time. Join us again for another live virtual dollop. We've got the meats. Now, onto Dolphin. Dr. John C. Lilly. It's already good. Graduated with a medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1942. Sineq was not popular. Sineq was not popular then. He trained in, and then later after World War II, he trained in psychoanalysis and began researching the physical structure of the brain and consciousness. Okay. So all very, it's all very good. All very well and good. This gentleman is. I'm not worried. Yeah. No, you shouldn't be. No, no, no. Why would you be this guy? Not worried. He's a doc. He's a doctor. In 1953, Lilly began a job studying neurophysiology with the US Public Health Service Commission Office Corp. So he gets a government. Not a problem. He's working. Following the trajectory. Yep. He's helping out the United States of America. Good man. He was good at his job. He invented the first method for taking electrical recordings from the brains of anesthetized animals. So he did that. And so you could put it, it was the kind you could put on a television monitor. You could watch the brain waves moving across. So that's, he did that. That's the first guy to do that. That's big. On ones that are unanesthetized. Yeah. The other guy was like, Hey man. So I'm not sure why. I'm not sure why that's something you want. Hey, let's not put this one out. So it did that. So big deal. Then he gets a job at the National Institute of Mental Health. And with another guy, he invented the isolation tank. Okay. What is that exactly? Did you ever see altered states? No. So isolation tanks are tanks that you basically, they're usually saltwater and you like get in them. That's so weird. I didn't know that I had my internet on, but I just got a message. It said several dead. Oh, great. And then the news story went away. Good. Well, we assume it's a shooting because it's, it's Sunday in America. Because everything felt good. So it's time to throw a wet blanket on it. People are dying. Hey, nine dead. It's in Vegas. Oh, good. Well, people in Vegas are like, what? So it's a little hot in here, right? It's hot. Are we okay? I'm fine. Okay. So an isolation tank is like, it's a tank that you, you climb into and then you close a door so you're completely in darkness. Okay. And you just float and it's supposed to change your consciousness in some way. It's supposed to be like this, you know, is it crazy that I want to do that now? Yeah, but it also to me sounds like total bullshit. It's like, it's like a, why don't you call it night bath? Like it's just like, I'll buy your night bath. How much for your night bath? So he did that and he was super into his isolation tank and then the sixties came along. Right? Slippery slope. And people enjoyed drugs in the sixties. There was a, it was a time of consciousness expanding. Yeah. Well, too much sometimes. Slippery was one of the early pioneers of using LSD inside the isolation tank. So let me just, it's important I think for me to tell you when I feel the turn, I feel the turn. I feel the turn right now. It seems like, does it seem like it might go wrong? Well, here's what I know so far. Dolphin is what we're titling this. Acid water. There's starting to be a map. But it's going to go so much worse than you could ever imagine. So he took massive doses of LSD and just sat in a tub all the time while getting paid by the government. He was hoping to, this is it. He was hoping to reprogram his mental circuits toward enlightenment, but he also had migraines. So he thought that the LSD would cure the migraines. Sure, they do. But it didn't. He kept taking, he kept getting migraines, taking acid and then getting in the tubs and sitting there for hours and it just wasn't helping. It just, I don't know why. It just wasn't helping. What was it working for him? I don't know. There was a tub and acid, right? Yeah. Yeah, I feel like that should be working. So he decided with a friend, another fellow doctor and researcher, Dr. Einreit, that they should start taking ketamine. Okay. Okay. So, I mean, you follow the, the, oh yes, there's definitely, it's looked like I said, we're in the spiral. We're going down the drain. The first time, actually he says it cured his migraines because he, the first time he got in the tub, the guy shot him up with ketamine and, and he said that his migrainer for 20 seconds and then it came back and then he shot him up with more ketamine and eventually he shot him up with just like, like enough ketamine to kill 70 elephants. And he's like, I don't feel anything. My headache's gone. Bye. So, on one particular day, Einreit injected himself with some K. Wow. We're already K'ing it. Yeah. With Lily observing. And this began a strange odyssey into the primal archetype regions of the psyche. I'm bonossa Dr. Lily. Einreit had reprogrammed, reprogrammed himself to return to the pre-hominated origins of man. Einreit in this program altered state displayed all the typical features, movements and sounds of an ape man. Hopping around in a crouched position, grunting, growling, ranting and howling, gestulating and shaking frantically his arms. Good trip, bro. Yeah. I mean, yeah, I just reset my mind to the hominid. Wow. Yeah. So what are you... I just like to point out these are doctors doing research. Well, I think at this point they might no longer be doctors. They don't necessarily have to take it away from you, but I'm willing to say no more. Um, Lily assumed that Einreit was having some sort of seizure, but that's not what was happening. No, Lily, he's just reprogrammed himself. In Einreit's mind, he was fighting a leopard. So it all makes sense. Look, most, I've all, every time I've seen a seizure, I'm like, let them be. They might just be fighting a leopard. See where this goes. Yeah, but they're just shaking on the ground. No, no, no. That looks like a leopard fight to me if I've ever seen one. Finally Einreit climbed up into a tree and stared down at his friend and colleague from the branches above. I should add it's not a real tree. They were still in the lab. Whoa. So somehow he climbed up something in the lab, but she's calling it a tree. And it was like, I think shitting in his hand. Hey, how you doing? How's your headache? You're migrating God? Oh, okay. That's what was made into the movie Altered States. Okay. So in the movie Altered States, like it ends with a guy like, like he's changed himself in the tub. Wait, who made Altered States? William Hurt is in it. Okay. And he's like, he like bangs one hand on a hallway and he turns back at himself and then he bangs it on the other side of the hallway and he turns it into some gelatinous like pre man thing. And then he bangs on the other and that's like the end of the movie. I think really, really. They left it open for a sequel in other words. Super real. But it was really popular. People were like, is that what happens in tubs? Oh, God. No. Don't go to tub in the dark. Okay. So from this experience, bid you three conclusions. No, I did too. First one's internal reality could differ radically from external reality. Fair point. Ape man. Second, the person might remain active physically in the external environment. Right. That makes sense. And third, one could remain totally oblivious to this disparity. That's the dangerous one. Larry, you're not a monkey. Of course I am. And for ketamine is fucking awesome. You sound ridiculous. Should be more. Okay. I want to turn into an elephant. That'd be great. In these conditions, Lily and Enright agreed that it would be a good idea at all times to have a safety man monitor in the experiment. You know what? There would be other conclusions to fully draw. That sentence could go their separate ways forever. Oh, God. And then Lily had an almost fatal experience. Surprising, right? Yeah. She probably climbed a building that was actually a drawer. It's a dude. Oh, right. It's John Lily. Fair enough. That's like going to be a woman. Okay. So it's weird that the combination of ketamine and a hot tub might lead to some sort of issues. Yeah. Well, as we've learned, a hot tub is better for gold. So he got into one of his tubs and he realized it was too hot. Okay. Right. So he's like, I'm kind of cooking. So he tried to get up and get out, but that's when he realized he couldn't use his muscles anymore. Oh, God. So he just fell down face down in the tub. Okay. Okay. I mean, not okay, but okay. But I loved it. Like they just said previously that they were going to have a monitor and then he does this without a monitor. A lifeguard. Yeah. A lifeguard. Just some chick with a red. Yeah. Just looking the other way with binoculars. Look, my muscles. Man. But I love that. Why would you ever take ketamine and get into a tub? Look, like worst ideas. Yeah. A terrible idea. You have too many beers. You don't go swimming. Check the temp. Yeah. First thing you do. Yeah. Put your finger in. How is he getting in the tub? Is he fully cannonballing in? He would get in and then he would shoot himself. Yeah. But when you're getting in, part of you touches it first. He was probably like, oh, this hot, hot, hot, hot, hot, hot, hot, hot, hot, shot. Oh, it's too hot. Yeah. Now, at that exact moment, another friend of his called and said he had to speak to him immediately. So his wife went over to the tub and found him lying face down. And she revived him with mouth to mouth, which he had just learned a couple days earlier by reading about in the National Enquirer. I swear to God, I swear to God, this is true. She read about that. There's like red flags being placed on red flags here. The Enquirer. Yeah, but because Lily survived and because of the phone call and the National Enquirer, he figured that he was being watched over by higher power. I mean, listen, there's a lot of crazy things. If I went through this, I'd be like, maybe there is a God. Right. Well, he doesn't think it's God. He thinks it's aliens. He's an alien. So he called him Echo Earth Coincidence Control Office. Wow, that's crazy. He's working for the government. What is it? Earth Coincidence Control Office. He believed no matter what happened, Echo would be there to guide him safe through the tunnel to the light. He wrote Men in Black, right? He said so many of his things turned into movies, I think. Oh, I'm sure, yeah. But Echo was also there to test him, right? Sure. Such as one evening, he took a shot of Kay while he was sitting around watching TV. As one does. Just shows. You know what? I'm going to watch Dragnet, so I might as well shoot up. Probably do a little Kay. Watch Dragnet. And then after he took the Kay, an alien representative Echo showed up. Okay. And are you sure? Bloodlessly removed his penis. I'm sorry? Bloodlessly removed his penis. Dave, you can't say that. Bloodlessly removed his penis. You said that like, I'm going to go to the store. And then nonchalantly handed it to him. So an alien, now this happens. An alien Kay. Oh yeah. This is science. Yeah. An alien Kay. An Echo representative. Took off his dick without any blood and handed it to him. Right. It was like, here you go, bro. Hey. And so Dr. By the way, I don't work for Echo. I'm just a weird alien. I actually do an alien prank show. You're on it. Will you sign this? Sign this. It's a release. It's a release. We can use your image. So Dr. Lily yelled to his wife who was upstairs. They've cut off my penis. So you're a lady sitting upstairs and you're thinking, oh god, when is he going to get his shit together? And then he just yells, they cut off my dick. She's like, oh fuck me. Oh god. Good god. But I have it in my hand. It's okay. Not bleeding. Bloodlessly. So Tony's wife went downstairs. Probably a little worried. And pointed out to John that his penis was still intact. So it was still there. Okay. So which is weird, right? Well, yeah, he took Kay, right? Well he looked at it closely. He inspected it. And that's when he saw that the extraterrestrial had replaced his normal human penis with a mechanical version that can become voluntary erect when he wanted it to. So he had like a bionic dick. Kay, remember when bloodlessly removing the dick was the weird thing? So now he's got a robot penis that he could basically command to get hurt. I mean, come on, he fucked his wife, right? Oh my god. That'd be great if he pretended after that he couldn't get it out. This happens to all robotic penises. They just break. Oh, I don't have the remote. An hour later, after the effects of Kay wore off, Lily found his normal human penis in place of the mechanical one exactly where it had always been. Right. But that all happened. Right. Obviously that all happened. And yeah, what a roller coaster he went on with his penis that night. Dear Joe. A lot of ups and downs. Dear Diary, here's a woozy. Get ready. I'm going to be the next Philip K dick. They're going to turn this into a movie. Tom Cruise stars ass. My penis. It's gone. What are you talking about? It's right there. This is a mechanical one. I can make hard one. I need to 20th century Fox presents. Oh god. Now during all this, he's working for the government and he was studying the brain. Right. How was your weekend, Charlie? Good. Good. You pretty weird, actually. Had an odd one. Had an odd Sunday. I did. Shockingly, he'd gain the respect of the scientific community. And then at some point he became interested in dolphins. Oh boy. Partly his interest came from floating around for hours in saltwater on drugs. Right. Yeah, that'll do it. Basically he was a smart drug addict thinking, I'm a dolphin. Oh boy. He said in an interview I found from 1983, he said, one day while I was floating in the tank at M.I.N. The fact that this is happening, that he's doing drugs and floating around in a fucking tank at a government research hospital. All right, so we've given you your next six months money. We like everything you're doing with the K tank. The K tank. One day while I was floating in the tank at M.I.N. H, I thought, gee, wouldn't it be great to do this for 24 hours a day? When I mentioned this to a friend, he said, well, try the dolphins. So that's how I started to work with dolphins. Science. Wait, his friend said, try the dolphins? Yeah. And he was like, okay. I'm going to try the dolphins. All right. None of that makes sense. All right. Those are scientists talking to each other. Scientists. Try the dolphins. Well, have a good life. Try the dolphins. So he began experimenting on dolphins. Try the trout. Why not that? What about an octopus? Try the striped bass. Dog break. Dogs on you. Dog is like, hello, father. He began experimenting on dolphins with the idea that he'd get man and dolphin to speak to each other. Well, listen, I'm on board. I'm on board. He did. He actually did. It changed the way people. He's the guy who changed the way people looked at dolphins. He put out a book in 1961 called Man and the Dolphin, and it was the first book to claim that dolphins displayed complex emotions, that they were capable of controlling anger, and that like humans, they trembled when being heard. You know, they did all that shit. He called them our cognitive equals. So he's the guy who fucking broke that shit open. All right. So there's good. So there's good, right? So he did that. This is what they call a pregnant pause. We're about to have a baby, aren't we? We really speculated that they were capable of a form of telepathy that was the key to understanding extraterrestrial communication. So as a scientist, he looked at the dolphins and he said, they talk funny. Yeah. Clearly they can talk to each other with their brains, and this will help us talk to aliens. But last part. Last part. It used all of his second aliens. Right. A plus B equals nine. Right. Bingo. He also believed they could teach us to live in outer space without gravity. Well, finally, we're getting making sense again. And he proposed that they could be trained to serve the Navy as glorified seeing eyes. So he basically. Why the net? He basically had a bunch of crazy fucking ideas. And then he went, okay, how can I make money? And he went to the Navy and went, hey, we can use these things. That's why he went to the Navy. And the Navy gave him a bunch of money. Jesus. Even though he was clearly out. He sat and meaning that we all talk to aliens. And they help us float in space and they care they use telepathy. Also, by the way, you can use them to see stuff far away and help you out with that. Oh, start with a little small talk too. You know, I just had my dick taken off bloodlessly. So, uh, I don't want to be all business. Anyway, let's get into the fact that dolphins are the key to floating in space. Moving on. Oh, yes. The government's like, we got to give money. Throw money at him. There's no way it can work out. It's crazy enough to be totally valid. So dolphin point laboratory. Whoa. Was on DPL. DPL. Hot. DPL. Was on the island of St. Thomas in the Caribbean Sea. Okay. First, he started giving LSD to the dolphins. What the fuck? What the actual fuck? What the fuck? He, I mean, that is just, wow, you got to be really sure of yourself when you're fucking putting acid on a dolphin. It's one thing to dose a guy at a party. Yeah. And then say, hey, you've been dosed. It's another thing to dose a really intelligent being that you can't tell you dosed it. Hey, man, you took acid. You can't tell that to a fucking dolphin. Oh my God. Oh my God. This guy you told us, try the dolphins. Really should have just bit his tongue. I like how he was so regretting this. Yeah. Oh, why did I try the dolphins? The dolphin just comes back with like a headband and a drumstick. Hey, man. Man, sick trip. Got any more paper? Hey, man, I think I went to Venus. Hey, man. Okay, so the reason he was giving him LSD is because he wanted to, he figured it would get them to help talk to us. Right. Like they would, they'd be like, hey, man, I like how this all comes from rat poison. This genius, like opening up the galaxy. Okay, this is a transcript from him being interviewed at a conference. Oh boy. We gave a hundred milligram dose to a 400 pound dolphin. There was about a 50% increase in the respiration rate at the beginning and then a four times increase in the rate at the peak of the effect. At the same time, the heart rate went up 20%. The animal was stranded. He was out of the water. Wait. Yeah. Are you seeing anything? There's a problem at the end. Are you seeing? What's the problem? So he's taking dolphin. Can you, can you figure out why his heart rate went up? I think it's because he wasn't in water. Did you imagine, did you imagine someone grabbing you and shoving you in a pool and then giving you acid? You know, he actually, we found some really interesting things with Gareth. He was, his heart rate increased. He was having trouble breathing. He was really freaking out. Again, he was drowning. She is a Christ. The dolphin's just replaying where it swam over. It's like, if I just swam a little more to the right, he wouldn't have gotten me. So this is the quote. This animal was stranded. He was out of water. This is something which causes dolphins a great deal of distress. In other words, they are in a continuous state of anxiety when they're out of the water. We found out later that there were pressure point lesions which they get when they're taken out of water. So he's saying when you take something that exists in water, it dies. It floats and then you just put it on the ground. It's body smashes. It has problems, yeah. It's body's like, I don't have legs. What is this contact? This constant contact to something. Here's your acid. We found out later that when you take a floaty and put it on a hard thing, then it goes squishy, squish. Also, we just realized if you spike a baby like a football, some of its bones will break. So, we have more money, the Navy's paying us for this. If you shoot a bear in the back of the head, it'll die. Ugh, fuck. Still, still is still quoting him. We ran careful controls, changing the second setting, putting an animal in a small tank with another animal, putting it in a small tank with shallow water alone, putting it in a very large tank where it had complete. So, they were just dosing dolphins and throwing them in shallow water with another dolphin and in deep water. And the whole time the dolphins are going, the fuck is happening? No matter what they put them in, the reaction was, God. Holy shit. God, these fucking poor dolphins. What are you all talking about? What are you all going to say? What are you all going to say? All right, give them a little more acid and drain some of that water. No, not with the shot. Drain a little bit of that water. No more of the shots. There you go, and good. God. It doesn't seem happy, does it? He seems worried. Jesus Christ. Ugh. We had one dolphin we had received two and a half years ago. In this particular instance, this dolphin had been shot with a speargun three times through the tail before we got it. So it thought that life sucked. So we got one with PTSD. And we thought this will be a good one to give acid to. Unknowingly. Also, we opened a grocery store with a bunch of Vietnam veterans and gave them acid. And come on down. Have you seen the movie, Jacob's Ladder? It doesn't end well. Now, imagine if that was your mind. And you're a dolphin. And you're not aware of what anything is. Here we go. Okay, so after it happened, she would not come near human beings at all. Why do you think that is? It is weird. So this dolphin, they've been there for a while and they've given it acid, obviously. She hasn't got acid yet. They just brought her in. She wouldn't go near humans. Oh. So they thought, you know, it'll make her friendly to humans. A little bit of acid. A little bit of LSD. A little vitamin L. Let's doze this bitch. In our pool, she would stay far away from anybody that was there. If you tried to approach her, she would shoot away from you. She acted like this for two years. We decided to use her as one of our controls using LSD. As the LSD effect came on, 40 minutes after the injection, the dolphin came over to me. And shouted, kill me. She had not approached me before. She stayed in the tank with one eye out of the water looking at me in the eye for 10 minutes without moving. This was a completely new behavior. Because she doesn't know what anything is anymore. Because she's a dolphin. She's really worried. On acid. So she swam over to you and was looking at you going, are you kelp? What is happening? Kelp, I need some kelp. Kelp. I mean, so he's like, well, this is very interesting. He's writing down stuff. Interesting. Dolphin looking at me strangely. Wouldn't come near me for years. Give it a little bit of acid. It stares at me like I meet. Okay. So what he realized is that the LSD didn't work because they weren't talking. Whoa. Jesus. This guy has a really high bar to jump on. His dolphins are just, they're not working with, it's not going to happen. He's just going to keep giving dolphins acid until one of them's like, hey man, can you stop playing Jefferson Starship all the time? Is that cool? Hey, as a dolphin, the one thing that I learned is that I don't like the doors, man. Could you stop? Could you stop? So he then created the experiment that lost him all creditability with the scientific I mean, the excitement. Yeah, but here's the thing. Up until this point, I mean, all the shit that he's been doing, they've been doing that with humans. Like in the 60s, it was just fucking insane. Mental hospitals were fucking crazy. The shit they did to people was nuts. Yeah. So this is like standard what you did to people and anything else. Like you just, you just fucked with shit. Like that was like science. Yeah, they would just be like, let's let off an atom bomb just to see what it does. It hurts everybody. It's the right thing. So he actually did an experiment that made the scientific community rejected, which is pretty. So this is. This is the one. This is a real humdinger. I'm excited. The one thing he knew about working with dolphins was that you should, and I quote, get in the tank with them, make friends with them, and maybe maybe they will put up with it for a little bit longer, whatever you're doing. Okay. Unless I think you get massed in the product. Hey, what happened before? We don't have a connection anymore. You teach me how to use a gun. So. In 1965. Oh boy. His newest experiment involved a woman living with a dolphin for 10 weeks. Thank you, the odd couple theme. The dolphins picking up a cigar with the umbrella like, oh boy. Lily decided 10 weeks was the maximum a dolphin and a human could live together. That's my favorite. Yeah, that's just so. You know what? I get my graph chart here. Yeah, it's about 10 weeks because one time I saw the number 10 on a bathroom stall. So that's how that works. Let's give this fish drugs. I don't even know what's a mammal. The dolphin house was flooded with water and redesigned for a specific purpose to allow the human and the dolphin to live, sleep, eat, wash, and play intimately together. I should add that later Lily said 1965 was the year he quote no longer regarded the scientific viewpoint of total objectivity as the be all and end all. Kind of important to science. And I'm out. Let's get a dolphin and a check to shack up. Hey, you know what? I just realized nothing means anything. So I'm going to have this woman live with a dolphin. That's also the dolphin. Like really think of the dolphin. I know the dolphin is like 10 weeks. It's got to just live with a woman and take acid. No, they're not taking acid. Oh, they're just living. They're not taking acid. They're just living together. It's just it's just living together. He was like, let's make an apartment for a dolphin and a woman. That's literally so put equal human and dolphin posters up guys. You know why dolphins aren't talking? They're not living with peeps. That's true. That's right. It's comfortability. You had a dolphin has to trust you before exactly after like and that only happens after nine weeks. Then that takes it exactly after nine weeks. The dolphin goes. Oh my God. Have you seen the adventures? You see the Giants game last night? What? Yeah, it's crazy. What are you talking field, golden overtime? I don't like the new rules. I really held out. Didn't I? I was not going to talk to you, but you just won't fuck off. How the fuck did you go? 10 weeks was my limit. How did you know that ten weeks? Okay. What do you want to know? Markered Howe was a 23 year old. She was one of the assistants working at the lab. Okay. Howe's aims were threefold. To make notes on the interspecies isolation. Oh boy. I feel like the third one's going to be the best one again. To attempt to teach Peter to speak. Peter's the dolphin. Pretty good. Pretty good one. He's not another guy that works at the lab. Peter's the dolphin. Peter, just stop being so moody. And to gather information so the living conditions might be improved for longer term co-abitation. So the idea was that she was going to gam to talk and hopefully work it out so that other people can live with dolphins for a lot longer. Hopefully we can open the dolphin human apartment complex we were dreamed of living in. I haven't paid rent in six months. I'm a dolphin. So I'm not going to pay rent. Want some acid? Want to come in and do acid? Okay. She spent 10 weeks, 24 hours a day with the dolphin. She cooked and slept. It's 24 hours a day. She cooked and slept in the area which was wet. She learned how to live wet. She learned the proper kind of clothing to wear. She learned that she can't have electrical appliances. Jesus Christ. Where did she go to school? Here's a toaster. Whoa, that stung. That's a lesson learned for both of us as the dolphins. Get a gun and kill me. Please, kill me. My God, you had my acid for two years. Now I'm living with a crazy broad. Please, please. Oh, and by the way, we use the term broad. Dolphins. We have, we have, we have, we kind of like that. We're misogynistic. He gave her propane stove for cooking and whatnot. They modified two rooms in the laboratory, one on the balcony out in the sun and one inside. They took the tank out and made two rooms into a tank with two feet of water in it. So nobody wins? I mean, right? The dolphins like, this isn't enough. And the humans like, I'm sick of being wet. They made areas where how could climb out of the water and areas where the dolphin could go into deeper water. Probably where he was spending a good amount of time. He called it the Jesus Christ seriously pool. Lily believed the human dolphin relationship developed best in 18 to 24 inches of water. Wow. There's just. He just made everything up. He just made everything up. Literally everything. Everything. Giving dolphins acid out the 10 weeks, 24 inches. If my findings are correct, they like two feet. They don't guy who gave an animal acid. Because he thought the dolphin can swim and the person can walk or sit down or lie down without fear of drowning. So that would meet the dolphin halfway. Okay, a dolphin can go a lot deeper than two feet. So it's not halfway. It's not even remotely halfway. Did the dolphin agree to this compromise? Yeah, two feet is good. I don't want to go deeper than two feet. Yeah, two feet. How deep is the ocean? Eight feet? Two feet. That'll be bad. You're watching dumb dolphins. Hey, you watch. Hey, what's so shit about eight? Give me two. I'm good. All right. Take this acid. Got to get a headache. Okay. On G15, how moved in with the dolphin, Peter? She cut her hair to a quarter inch boycrop. No idea why. No, I know why. Because dolphins like those haircuts. She must have thought, I want to be more dolphin-like. So I don't get a long hair. The hair is going to be the issue here. Not the walking. Okay. A desk hung from the ceiling. Okay. So they're like a house of horrors. Her bed was a suspended foam mattress that she laid it fitted with a shower curtain so that Peter splashes did not soak her throughout the night. Hey, wake up, bitch. Get me out of here, bitch. She lived on canned food, so she didn't have to get food from people on the outside. How the fuck did this woman say yes to this? Jesus Christ. Early entries in her diary. Kill me, send her. She recorded that her companion spent, quote, a good deal of his time in front of the mirror. So the dolphin is like, the dolphin is like, holy fuck, look at this. You know what he's doing? He's dying to see something that's like him. He's like, you know what? Instead of talking to that bitch that I keep flashing, I'm just going to look in the mirror and pretend that that's another one of me. This is not happening. This is not happening. This is not happening. She reported that Peter was a good student. He learned to pronounce such words as ball and diamond and to tell the difference between certain objects. Now, now those have never been able to be recreated. Oh, that's a shit. Is that weird that dolphins don't say ball? Oh, we say ball. Oh, diamond. There it is. Write that down. Oh, he said, I like canned food. He just asked for more acid. How was a creative, commendably patient teacher when Peter struggled with certain sounds, particularly the M in her name? Oh, Margaret was her name. She came up with an inventive method of painting her face in thick white makeup and black lipstick so that he could clearly see the shape of her lips moving. So this is science at its best. Oh my God. Oh my God. What the fuck? He basically put on clown makeup. Yeah, she's like, OK. Because he was like, I don't get what's happening. Where's that coming from? I can't really see. You know what? I think he can't tell what my lips are. Let's paint my face like an oompa loompa. Fucking. You have me another can of olives? Hey, you know what? Dolphins can really understand mimes. I'm going to make myself look like a fucking mime. Painting her, the dolphin was like, I mean, I thought it was bad. Then she started painting her face. And that worries me. He was just in there going, oh fuck. I'm going to die. Yeah. Oh my God. The whole time he's like, when do they kill me? I don't even have a cult. Yeah. Just him. 10, uh. Two feet of water with a psycho with her face painted going, diamond. Diamond. Peter, diamond. And the dolphins going, oh God, I wish I could talk until I was fucked up. He's trying to talk. How do you say fuck off? Prefere me. Prefere me. I would like to point out at this time that experts today think there is little evidence that an actual dolphin language exists. Well, have they tried giving them acid? Or having them shack up the broad. Yeah. Having them get a lease with a woman. Week three. Oh God. Week three. Things started to sour. Yeah. Peter and how. How noted that Peter was making whining noises all the time and loud noises for no apparent reason at night. No reason. No reason. No reason. Why would a dolphin trapped in two feet of water in a house? Why would he be going fuck? Yeah. Doesn't he know we sleep at night? Dolphins don't sleep. Oh, by the way, the reason that he is screaming at night is because they don't sleep for eight hours. He's having nightmares. He's a dolphin. He's having night terrors. We just need to get him on something. I don't know why he's yelling at me at night. Boy, he is just splashing a shawty dick. He's a bad roomie. Bad. He's a bad roomie. Bad roomie. Oh, okay. Thank you. What? Yeah, thanks. How? They sleep at like, they sleep at like five minute bursts throughout the day. Yeah. They don't crash for eight hours. Yeah. No, they're not like, all right, I'm going to have some almonds and then I'm just going to head down and just let myself drift. I'm going to dolphin out. And then if the thing is, if he did sleep, all he would dream about was, I mean, that's why he didn't sleep. He could, how could you sleep when you wake up to that? You're like, nah, it's still here. Oh, shit. She's still got her face painted. She's like, morning. What kind of candy you want? Candy. Candy. Candy. Skateboard. Say skateboard, Peter. God, I'm, um, seriously, I'm going to tell people they're not going to believe this. I was trapped in a kiddie pool with a lady with white makeup on who kept yelling candy at me. I swear to fucking God, that's what happened for 10 weeks. Where were you really, Peter? Look, Peter, if there's another dolphin, you can just tell me, baby. What happened? Baby. Yeah. I was in a tent. Yeah. So you were just in a pool with a human and she painted her face and tried to teach you to say diamond and candy. Yes. God, I just don't even, you've changed. Baby. Look, I still love you. Oh, so she was, so she was getting depressed and angry at the dolphin. What a victim. Then came week five. And I quote from how, how's notes. Peter begins having erections and has them frequently when I play with him. Oh God. Okay. I'll tell you what I'm not looking for. It's just week six. So let's start calling her Margaret. You know what I mean? Her, her frustrated efforts to deal with his sexual needs and advances, which becomes so aggressive that her legs were covered in minor injuries from his jamming and nibbling. Boner scars. Okay. If Cox had dicks. If Cox had teeth, not dicks. If Cox had dicks. If Cox had dicks. If Cox had teeth, this is what your legs would look like. Here's the thing about dolphins. They love fucking. Professor Peter White, a dolphin expert, says dolphins are mostly bisexual, sometimes heterosexual, sometimes homosexual and very frequent eight to 10 times a day. Are they ticklish? So. It's a Peter. It was like, I love to fuck. Yeah. And then he was locked in a little kiddie pool with a girl one person who was making mouth holes and he was like, can I fuck it? Can I fuck it? I mean, when she highlighted her mouth. It's like a dolphin pussy. Like he was. She's diamond. He's like, blow me. Put that shit on my dick. Put it on my dick. I should mention now that dolphins are horrible. They're like the sexual predators of the ocean. They have tried to rape women, human women. Wow. Especially loner dolphins who don't have a pod. They try to just fuck people. Dolphins in pod gang rapes. They gang rape their females and keep them captive for weeks. Do they make them live with a human? They kill baby dolphins because once the baby dolphin is dead, the female is ready to be raped and impregnated again. So the dolphin world is like a fraternity gone fucking insane. Sounds like true blood. So dolphins are horrible. Yeah. Well, I mean. I mean, okay. Now both of these sides are horrible. They sound like politicians. They're good until you dig. So Margaret was scared at this point. She was going to get raped by an animal. Is that why? Yeah. I mean, yeah. She had red Charlotte's web. She knew what happened next. She knew the score. She knew she was getting into. She shouldn't have worn that thing. She was asking for it. What do you mean the white makeup with the whole? The whole makeup. Okay. But she didn't want to bail on the experiment. Right. Because she thought it was important. She thought it was important. What would happen if she stopped the experiment? Oh, here. And then aliens came to Earth and everyone was like, how come you didn't stick in there? We could not have talked to these guys. Boy, I mean, there you were. The alien. Five weeks into the most important experiment in the history of the galaxy. And you bailed because someone was getting erections. And you rolled because you didn't want to fuck a dolphin? Ma'am, get your priorities straight. Just the aliens and the humans all sitting there with their arms crossed, and they were just staring at her. Really? Well, what are we going to do now? I guess we'll just stare at each other. So she decided the best way to handle the situation was to jerk off Pete. Oh my God, I knew it. I knew it. I didn't say dolphin fucking. The first time you did. What the fuck? She's jerking him off. Okay. No. Oh my God. She starts jerking off the dolphin. I respect the dolphin's game though. Now Lily is getting notes every day from her. How is he handling this? He's so excited. Can I quote, New, totally unexpected sequence of events took place. I feel that we are in the midst of a new becoming, moving into a previous unknown. He is like, yeah, dolphin porn. Oh my God. You know what I found is if you lock a woman in a dolphin in a room alone for 10 weeks, the woman will jerk off the dolphin. Out of fear. Out of fear. The dolphin will take it. So, so, could you imagine him handing in the Navy report? Okay. So, I didn't learn how to talk to them or talk to aliens. Can they help in combat? No. Okay. Well, I have pictures. Right. Check these out. Okay. So, the first thing I found out is, yeah. What? Yeah. Sir. Do you know what a website is? Sir. I realize it's the 60s, but I think we're going to make a lot of money. Oh my God. Pretty proud of myself. I feel vindicated. Sure, I feel a little vindicated, you know. Didn't see this coming, but who could have and Nobel Prize? Hello. Hello. Peter totally changed. He became very gentle with Margaret. Oh God. No, no, worse, worse. This is worse. This is worse. This is temporary. He began softly stroking his teeth up and down her legs. Oh my God, he wants to fuck. And saying, hey baby, what do you talk all the time? Hey, hey, hey, how you doing? Diamond ball, diamond, diamond, diamond ball. Hey, hey, ball ball. Ball ball, ball ball ball ball. How about this? Ball ball shaft. Go diamond shaft. Diamond shaft, stroke my penis. Shat mouth. Shat mouth ball. I'm not sure why you're not sucking it. Do you realize I'm a dolphin? I've never had a blow job. Suck ball shaft. I've never had a blow job. I'm a dolphin. Come on. Look at all the lady dolphins have teeth and that giant. Are you clean? Have you been tested? From Margaret's notes. Oh boy. Quote. Can't believe Anne Franks got this famous diary and this is nothing. This is more important. This is more important. I stand very still, legs slightly apart, and Peter slides his mouth gently over my shin. Peter is courting me. He is most persistent and patient, obviously a sexy business. This mood is very gentle, still and hushed. All movements are slow. Oh my god. Okay, so he's going in for the pussy too. She's not only jerking him off, but he's trying to fuck. He's trying to stick his nose up her pussy. Oh my god. I should find out a nose. The beak thing. The cock shape thing. The cock shape nose. Holy shit. Hey. What week are we in six? Hey Margaret. I swear to god just the tip. Just the tip of my nose. You promise? Oh my god. Yeah, just the tip. Oh. That feels good. I'm going to open up my mouth now. I love fish. Now Margaret is no longer depressed. Oh god, she's, I don't know whose words. It was the worst year. She's enjoying his attentiveness. That went on for five weeks. Then the experiment ended. So basically she went in there to talk to a dolphin and she ended up having a sexual relationship with a dolphin where there probably wasn't as much talking except for And then she, and then she bailed. After 10. After 10 it was over. Yeah. The experiment was over. So she walks out. They went their separate ways because obviously. Yeah. She wasn't like, oh we should get married. It was just a thing. Peter and Peter was like what the fuck is my, I love you. I'm super into you. Okay, Margaret ended up marrying the project photographer. So there was a dude. No. Taking pictures of all this. No. It was like, oh. Wow. I like the way she jerks that dolphin dick. I'm a fucking mariner. Fucking mariner. You find a woman that jerks off dolphins, you lock her down. She's rare. Hey honey, when we do it tonight, can we look at the pictures again? Should I put on the dolphin outfit? Honey, okay I'm gonna do it. Ready? Ball, ball, diamond, diamond, ball, ball, ball. That's what he's putting his nose in her pussy. The vets lab, Andy Williamson was concerned about Peter who was in love with Margaret. Yeah, we're all very concerned about Peter. Seriously, Peter, Peter's fucked. He's been through, he's fucked. So after the experiment, Lily's funding began to dry up. Why? I can't really figure out. Why? They found out some part of what he was doing. So what he started to do was to take insane amounts of ketamine. Great solution. So that's a good solution. And oddly during this period, he started having contact with a different alien intelligence agency. A second one, SSI, which is short for solid state intelligence. What? Just hear me out. I knew the market was so saturated. Got another one. Jesus, they're popping up everywhere. They're like Starbucks. SSI was a super computer like entity and mell... Level it. Okay. Naturally, SSI was at odds with Echo. Yes, of course. How could they not? Well, I mean, I'd say this. Once a solid state. East Coast, West Coast. Actually. SSI's goal was to conquer and dominate all biological life forms on Earth. To combat SSI, Echo enlisted Lily in this battle of good versus evil, charging him with the mission of alerting the world at large to these solid state beings of evil intent. So, he finds another bad alien... I mean, they're computers or whatever. He finds an alien computer race. Yes, SSI. And then Echo is like, bro, you gotta help us out. Yeah. Because you're good at shit. And at any point was Lily like, yeah, but what does this have to do with getting that woman to jerk off that doll? Look, man, we don't know. Okay. Just hear me out, I'm an alien. Listen, just trust me. They're all gonna come around. This is gonna work. By the way, got your dick? Got your dick? Let's back. Ta-da! To confirm the dual existences of the two opposing alien networks... This I can't wait for. Well, this is confirmation. Lily was given a sign in the autumn of 1974. Flying into... So, he's been doing ketamine now... Good time. Since 65. Good amount of time. Since 65. Or no, since like 60. This guy's been doing ketamine for like 14 fucking years. Yeah. At one point in another interview, he said, I did it for hundreds of days straight. Oh, god damn, hundreds. Flying into Los Angeles International Airport, Dr. Lily saw the comet, Kohotec, out of the southern sky. Momentarily, the comet grew brighter. At this point, a message was laser-beamed into Lily's mind, which said, we are solid state intelligence and we are going to demonstrate our power by shutting down all solid state equipment to LAX. So, they're gonna shut down LAX. Just to make a point to him. Just to fuck you. Just to go, hey, we're here, bro. Hey. Yeah. And we're not fucking around. We're intergalactic and we're gonna ruin an airport. Dr. Lily shared his foreboding message with his wife, Tony, who was seated next to him. Oh, god, who was that? Now, this woman is a saint. Yes. How the fuck? So, he turns to her and goes, look, there's another, I told you about the other ones, SSI, they're gonna shut down LAX. She's like, can I have that magazine? Is there no fault? Divorce yet? A few minutes later, the impollet instructed the passengers that they were being diverted to Burbank due to a plane crash near the runway at LAX that had knocked down power lines. So, SSI was like, you're gonna have to drive an extra 15 minutes. Boom. Suck on em, motherfucker. Lex, that muscle. Burbank. SSI is here. You're probably gonna be able to leave a lot easier, but with traffic, oh boy. See if you can get tickets to the Tonight Show. Coincidentally, as Lily took more and more K, so did warnings of imminent dangers regarding the survival of mankind provided by Echo, which were beamed into his mind. He saw scenes of nuclear annihilation from the alien's viewpoint in outer space and was told that the world powers need to be alerted to this impending tragedy immediately to avoid global devastation. This is so awesome. After three weeks of hourly K injections, Lily decided that he would travel to the East Coast to warn political leaders and members of the media of the threat posed by SSI. Can you imagine him coming in and like, you did the dolphin fucking thing, right? No, no, it's different. That is computer alien. We were only scratching the surface of my scientific mind. In New York, he phoned the White House to warn President Gerald Ford about quote, a danger to the human race involving atomic energy and computers. A White House aide fielded the call. And although aware of Dr. Lily's impressive credentials was not convinced of the urgency of the matter. They shut down LAX. And wouldn't let him talk to the president. Really? But how great would it have been? How great? Maybe the greatest phone call ever. And it's also, I just want, I would hope that anyone in this situation would know that he got a woman to jerk off a dolphin. Of course, like Ford would be like, yeah. Just going through some of your past stuff. Oh, wait. Okay, I get it. I get the atomic. We need to move now, Mr. President. Okay, but can you just, did she like stroke the shaft? Yeah, she would use mainly the shaft and she would jerk him off like that. And how long was it? She would go slow. He liked it slow, so she would give it to him slow. How did she know he liked it slow? Super computers are going to destroy the earth. She would vary her speed. How much semen would come out? I mean, it would vary. She was jerking him off five to six times a day, so not that much at that point. This is, I work for Echo. Okay, gotta go. He's finished masturbating. Gerald Ford. All right, good. Oh, Jesus Christ. Now, a young intern who was working for Lee, I love that now he has interns instead of assistants. Yeah, yeah. Right? Attempted to have him committed to a psychiatric hospital. Oh, good intern. Thankfully, Echo intervened. Oh, good. Lily had friends in many high places, one of which was the director of the hospital who saw his old friend and released him. Then the intern tried to have him put into a different hospital and the exact same thing happened. He's greasy. He's slippery. In 1974, so people stopped giving him ketamine. Oh, they, oh, God, good. People were like, bro. Buddy, it's been years. It's weird. It's weird. You're talking to Comets. It's just, I don't think it's right. Your intern's trying to hospitalize you, so we're going to wrap up the K. Sound good? No. You're the talk of the aliens. So no more K. Okay. In 1974, he was high on PCP riding his bicycle. Oh, riding. Glad he found a way out of that one. He was like, you know what, you're right. I have been doing K too much. I moved on to PCP. I'm going to go for a bike ride. He was experiencing a state of euphoria when he crashed. Which is amazing that anybody would crash on a bike. I'm going to go through a wall. He was in a coma for five days. He ended up puncturing along, breaking several ribs and suffering cranial contusions. So Echo came to visit him in the hospital. After he woke up. Or maybe when he's in the coma. Did they bring him anything? No, they didn't bring him anything. And they were like, look, you got to come with us or you got to fucking stop this shit. Even they're sick of it. Everyone's like, just shit or get off the pop. Even his alien hallucinations are like enough. Hey, look, we want to stop this fucking nuclear holocaust as much as anybody, but you are really annoying. Can I tell you something? I am the most exhausted hallucination on the face of the earth. Please stop doing drugs. It's been 14 years. Let me die. I don't want to be hallucination anymore. You know that dolphin you trapped? Multiply that by 140. That's me. That's me. I'm not real. Please. I want to stop. I'm not real and I have an emotion of wanting to die. Do you know how hard that is? You are so exhausting. You're just the world. How do you take that much drugs? That's it. I'm taking your dick back. Okay. So, he decided to end his relationship with Echo and focus on his wife. She's 70 now. So basically he resigned from his fake space outfit. Gentlemen, I'm finished. Cool because we're not real. He said in a room full of dolls. Now, I was like, now all the stories on him end at this point. And the reason I found this is because the BBC is doing a documentary on the dolphin part. Which by the way, the woman is still alive. Oh, Jesus Christ. And they talk to her. And I think it's coming out in June on the BBC. But then everything just all the information on him stopped. Like everyone was like, and then he just went on and then he died in 2001. And I was like, well, what about the 74 to 2001? Yeah. So I started digging into fucking and I'm like, where the fuck is this guy? Where does one go next? I found an interview with him in Omni Magazine. Do you remember Omni Magazine? I don't know if it's still around. It was like a pseudo sciency sort of magazine. Like, like there would be science but also like, oh, what about aliens? Yeah. Like that was their sort of angle. In 1983, they interviewed him and he talked about his current dolphin research at Marine World. No. So he's working at the, isn't Marine World the blackfish people? Wait, is he working at SeaWorld or Marine World? I think Marine World and SeaWorld are the same company. Yeah. Well, there's tons of them too. Yeah. Marine World was up North and SeaWorld was down here. Yeah. That's what I thought. Yeah. So it's the same company. It's just different. So he gets it. He's got a different name. He loves dolphins. He loves them. Oh no. But in this research, in his new research, he was trying to get computers to talk to dolphins. Oh my God. All right, you guys. Go ahead and have at it. And he just comes back and the computer's tricking the dolphin off. And I quote, oh no, from the interview, people have tried to make dolphins punch keys but I don't think dolphins should have to punch keys. They don't have these tiny fingers that we have. End quote. So he's made a lot of advances. Wow. It sounds like things are good. This wife's like, don't focus on me anymore. You know, they don't punch keys. They don't have fingers. Anyway. Question. Omni. How long will it take to break through the interspecies communication barrier? Now you know right there, that's your deal with a solid magazine. Yeah. A solid journalistic integrity. All of it. Yep. His answer, Lily, about five years. I think it may take about a year for the dolphins to learn the code. Yep. They're slow learners. And then in about five years we'll have a human dolphin dictionary. Yep. And there we go. Bing, bang, boom. Yeah, that's right. Oh, fuck. He also says in the interview that he had just been floating in an isolation tank. Oh, good. Doesn't seem like he's learned a lot. He didn't learn lessons. He died at the age of 86 in Los Angeles on September 30th, 2001. I would like to leave you one quote from Dr. John C. Lilly that I found. Have you seen the movie Tron? You must because Tron is us. Wow. Whoa. Jesus. Just when you thought he couldn't be more wrong. What? How do you feel right now? Man, that was a roller coaster. I mean, that was fucking. But the crazy thing is, is he's like the godfather of dolphin research because he's the guy that originally went, hey, dolphins are smart and cool. But the only reason he did that was because he was fucking nuts. And well, he cast a very wide net. So he was able, of course, you're going to learn some shit. But I mean, really, this is the man who got a woman to jerk a dolphin off. At the end of the day. At the end of the day. That's his crowning achievement. Yeah. That's his crowning achievement. It's penis. Remember when his penis got removed? Of course I remember that. That's going to be that when Johnny Depp plays that character, it's going to be amazing. Now this is who's playing this guy in the movie. This is a movie. This is for sure a movie. How is it not a fucking movie? It's insane. I mean, your first draft to be 450 pages. I don't know what I'm going to do. I didn't know you could take that. I thought you would just die from ketamine. I mean, isn't it a horse tranquilizer? Yeah, right? Yeah, it's heavy. Heavy duty. How the fuck? I mean, you must get used to it. Yeah, that's fine. I got him on ketamine. I'm going to go run a marathon. Yeah, and then eventually you're just like, oh, I worked for Echo. It's so much K. I got hired by aliens, huh? Great. K. God, I'd love to talk to his wife. Oh, God. She's like you said, either a saint or she's going to be like, he was a magic, magic man. He was my unicorn. He was the best. One night aliens took his dick and gave him a robot dick. He fucked me so hard that night. Oh, God, that night was a robot. I used to wake him up and go, did they take your dick again? Yeah, I remember I wish they'd take your dick again. We always joke about that. We didn't have any other couples that were friends. So there are dolphins out there that have been tortured beyond reason. I mean, given acid. I mean, really? Really fucked up. That's really, really fucked up. And the part is we say they are. Well, like you said, you can't explain. Right. You break the language barrier, then you give them acid. So you can tell them like if they need to take vitamin B, it's there and what is going to happen. Stare at the lava lamp. You can't just give an acid and then make it go like, have coral be like, hello. And it's like, ah. Oh, God, I'm in the water. I'm in the water. I'm in the water. I'm in the water. I'm in the water. I'm in the water. I'm in the water. I'm in the water. I'm in the water. I've never ever think that we're never mind. That sounds crazy. Oh, God, what happened? What's going on with Peter? What's happening with Peter? You guys know what dragons are? I think I'm a dragon. Can someone use their hand to jerk me off? Sorry. I need a hand. You know what I'm talking about? A hand? You guys want to punch my keys? You know what I mean? You little tiny fingers. All right. Well, good find. Good idea. I don't know how I found that one. Good find. Really, really great stuff. I mean, Jesus Christ, fucking insane. Insane. Man. I mean, I found it because I read about the dolphin thing. Yeah. But they didn't talk about the rest of his life. Why do you think they avoided that? What about that wasn't working for BBC? It's like if the fucking Grateful Dead started working with dolphins. Yeah. They'd probably be a little better to them. Somebody has to say when a woman's jerking off a dolphin, we've gone too far. I know. But I don't think anybody knew except for him. No, no, he was getting little notes. He was like excited. Oh my God. He was like, yes, perfect. I was a week off, but perfect. Week off? It's all happening. Oh, I hope they were in condoms. I'm going to make a dolphin woman hybrid. There we go. I work for Echo. Here's my business card. Yes, I know it's a cracker with marker on it. And it just says dolphin. It just says dolphin. That's me. Bye. I should tell people that we are going to send an application into the tickle competition for you. We've got a picture of you. Topless. Topless. And we're going to send it to them. And we'll see if you get in. I have a mustache and a sign I'm holding that says, ticklish, you betcha, gay? Nope. So they know the deal. So let everybody know how that turns out. It's going to turn out really well. I can't see. I can't. Dolphins. Dolphins. Dolphins. Dolphins. Dolphins. Dolphins. Dolphins. Dolphins. Dolphins.