 Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to Tiggly Quad, Kelly. Okay. You are queen-fakey of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I see you've done, my friend. No. No. Edmund Haley! Are you going to, do you want to just start with the dating shout again? It is known for his insights into the nature of comets, recognizing their elliptical periodosity. Better. Better. And precisely identifying the cyclical nature of one that now bears his name. That's Haley's comet. We already did one about that. Edmund, oh. But it was in 1691 that Haley came up with a theory about the Earth. He deduced that the Earth's magnetic field changes because the Earth was hollow. And he thought hollow Earth beings lived in the middle of our planet. Oh, whoa. What? Buddy. What? This is, there's no, there's no foreplay on this one. You're just jamming her in. We are right into her. Jesus, you thought the Earth was like one of those weird chocolate Dutch eggs? Yeah, and hopefully there's chocolate in there too. People, okay. Like Fragile Rock. Yeah, it's a lot like Fragile Rock. Sure. Haley said the Earth consisted of a hollow shell about 500 miles thick. I love that he just came up with that number. Like there's no, I mean there's not evidence of any of this, but then to like top it off with these weird details. No, it's 500 miles and then it's all in there, it's all just hollow. Scientology's taught us one thing, it's the specificity is what hooks them. So then there's two inner concentric shells at an innermost core about the diameters of the planets Venus, Mars and Mercury. Okay, so he's just totally out of his tits. He's going for it. Yeah, but he's, I mean like you just alluded to, there's no proof. I think a big part of science is just going for it. Just totally go for it. Shoot first, gas questions last. He said atmosphere separated the shells and each shell had its own magnetic pole and the spheres rotated at different speeds. So inside the Earth there's other planets that are spinning and going at different speeds. What was the movie Guillermo del Toro did with the giant robots fighting in the oceans? Oh, I don't remember. But yeah, Pacific Rim. Pacific Rim. But those things came from inside the Earth. They were living in there. Oh, okay, so well he's validated. Well, I think that's science. Yeah, that's definitely science. The idea of a hollow Earth persists through the next centuries despite scientific proof of any kind. Haley's idea of a race of rational beings, rational also. Yeah. So, so they're better than us already. Populating the hollow space of the Earth resonated with people throughout the 19th century. So people, a lot of people like this is a fucking great idea. This is right. This sounds good. You know what, this guy's not just comets. This guy also knows what's inside of Earth's guts. Okay, so he called the comet which he could see and then he also said a bunch of stuff he couldn't see. This guy can't miss. He's on fire right now with these concepts. Holy shit, you guys. Haley's going for it. Hey guys, do you hear what bread is? It's a dog. Look at Haley. Much of this belief was due to God. It was presumed that all planets that circle a sun must support sentient life. What? Like Earth. God did nothing without purpose and it was clear therefore that God would have placed life on other planets so that they would be inhabited in the same way as our own. Oh, well yeah. Okay. Can you find any holes? No, you know, look, it's such an easy, cause God. That's just an easy ask anything. Cause God. God wouldn't put us here if he wasn't going to put other people on other planets. Why would he do it? Cause God. Hey now. Huh? Enter Cleves Sims Jr. Cleves? The name's so good they had to name another child. I mean I assume it's Cleves. It's like Steve's. It's spelled like Steve's with it. Well there's not really a better version. Cleves? I like Cleves. It just sounds better. It's good Cleves. He was born in 1779 to a well-known family. His uncle was a delegate to the Congressional Congress, fought in the Revolutionary War and served on the New Jersey Supreme Court. So he's coming from a family. Sure. He's fucking some hot shit. Some ballers. John Cleves Sims Jr. added junior to his name so he wouldn't be confused with his uncle, John. Oh well. Right. Sure. So he's not actually a junior. Right. But since he had the same name as his uncle he was like well I'll just call myself junior. Sure. And who would want to be confused with this super respected famous guy? Well dude you don't want to get any of that heat. Come on now. John joined the military at 1802 at the age of 22. He was very successful in his military career unlike almost everyone else we have done a dollop about. Right. During the War of 1812 he served as a captain. He fought and won a duel. How about that? Yeah. Well we know that's no easy task. He learned French and Spanish and married Mary Ann Longwood. Oh, this is a good story. Man Longwood Jr. Mm-hmm. That should become to know. Everybody had to become a junior in the family. Yep. In 1816 he left the army and settled in St. Louis to trade with the Fox Indians. So that's easy. Like I'm going out to the frontier. Mm-hmm. I'm just trade some beaver pelts for some squaws or whatever you do. Yep. Beaver pelts for squaws. His uncle, oh I already did that. I'm okay. Okay. Do you need? John was a radical thinker and a pseudo scientist. Pseudos tough there. Well he read a lot of books. So, that's, I mean, I, you know, like... I feel like he's going to go for it. I could have, I could read two books on guitars. I wouldn't say I'm a pseudo guitarist. I'd say I read two books on guitars. I think back then you were a... I'm the world's best guitar player. You could do that back then. No one was calling you on any shit. Ugh, that was a better time. In December 1817 John saw a comet explode in a way that he interpreted as indicating it was not only hollow but also open at its poles. It's actually just a meteor. But he called it a comet. Comets don't come down and explode. But, so he saw it explode, so he saw a meteor explode and he looked at it and he said, well the way that exploded there must be hollow and open at the end. Yeah. Okay. You see where this is going? Oh boy. He then extrapolated that all planets were hollow. Oh no. They were at the poles at the ends. And were filled with smarter people. In 1818 a hand bill announcing itself as circular number one began appearing in letter boxes throughout the United States. Okay. It was addressed quote to all the world exclamation point. Oh Jesus Christ. That's a lot of printing. Yeah. And proclaimed an original and wholly American theory of the earth structure and geography. I'm nervous. I declare the earth is hollow and habitable within containing a number of solid concentric spheres one within the other and that it is open at the poles. Wait. I pledge my life in support of this truth and I am ready to explore the hollow if the world will support and aid me in the undertaking. Signed John Cleave signs of Ohio. Signed Google a blood. I like noodles and bikes. Signed spaghetti's good. So yeah. He thinks it's like one of those Russian dolls. Right. Yeah. That's what it sounds like. Right. Yeah. For sure. And okay. To the world. It's a great way to address it. I have ready for the press a treatise on the principles of matter. Where in I show proofs of the above positions account for various phenomena and disclose Dr. Darwin's golden secret. My terms are the patronage of this and new worlds I dedicate to my wife and her 10 children. My wife and her 10 children. I don't know what happened there. I know she had been previously married. I don't know if she came with 10 kids and if she did. How did she. Lot of baggage. Jesus. So he seems like he might be a saint. Her 10. I mean Mary's a lady with 10 kids. I mean the way if you're the lady the way you've got to bring that up it just has to be a you have to be a pseudoscientist. So because you start date for with like there's something I have to tell you I actually have a kid. You know he's like oh okay. Times. Yeah. Okay. And then you know you go another four days ago. I haven't been totally honest. My daughter has a brother. And he has a brother. And he has a brother. So I have three kids. And then when you get them to meet you just bring out seven. Oh did I not mention. Oh I'm sorry you got three left in the closet. They keep splitting. There's just another one. They're Adam's. Excuse me. Yep. And then once you fornicate. Just have the other three come in. Oh yeah. After you fornicate. So you're saying once he gets the action. Yeah. Yeah. This is a different time you know this is like a guy a guy would you know. Yeah. He'd have to walk miles. I ask 100. He didn't just have an app on his phone to go ahead. All right you ready for his ask. Yeah. I ask 100 brave companions well equipped. I'm asking for 100 fucking idiots. Well equipped to start from Siberia in the fall season with reindeer and slays on the ice of the frozen sea. Oh. Oh. We're going to fly there gentlemen. And anyone who gives a shit gets cold. I engage we find a warm and rich land stocked with elves stock with thrifty vegetables and animals if not men on reaching one degree northward of latitude of 62 we will return the succeeding spring. So he's got a plan. Yeah. Just dipping the earth for a little while. Come back out. Hundred bros go down there get some veggies. Hundred bros live like saying to bring back a rabbit or another dude whatever's down there. Fucking go and make some presents inside earth. Yeah. John printed 500 copies of his circular. Woo. It set them to philosophical societies colleges foreign rulers and governments American politicians and natural philosophers throughout the United States and Europe. More. I just love it some guy in Bulgaria is like what. What do you want us to you. You go center. He lives like Santa Claus. He says. He's like Santa Claus then goes inside the earth. He says vegetables. Lots of vegetables. Potato. Potatoes are lovely. He also attached to each copy a certificate attesting to his sanity. Well Dave we all know that you're in a good place when you have to attach. I'm not crazy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's you know you're sending out something that's taken a pretty big step. I am not a crazy person. Yeah. When you have to attach a certified letter now I know what you're thinking. This guy sounds fucking crazy. Right. I'm not crazy. Okay. If you see the attached newsletter do you'll see that I'm not actually crazy. Right. I'm not actually thinking that I'm crazy. But here just let me give you a sure I'd like to counter that and then you do have the note from a doctor saying you are saying. Yes. But then you sent out a crazy letter with it. No no no not a crazy letter. Okay. No no no that is a letter of my intentions right then to prove. Uh huh. That I'm not crazy. Right. If you look on the back there you'll see a letter that says what does it say. It says you're not crazy. Thank you. But this whole letter says you're crazy. If you look on the back there's another letter. Right. I see that one. Okay. I'm just saying they cancel each other out a little bit. Well listen I'd love for you to come. What's in the middle? Of Earth. Yeah. Lots of great produce. Great deli. It's like a great supermarket. Unfortunately his circular was met with overwhelming ridicule. I'm sorry we must have missed something because it sounds like you're still talking about him and there's no way he was ridiculed. But that did not deter John. He continued to promote his theory relentlessly over the next decade. In 1820 he moved to Newport Kentucky just across the river from Cincinnati which was at that point an emerging outpost of American science. There John devoted himself completely to promoting the hollow earth theory. Jesus. He toured the country giving speeches about this terrific news. His speaking fees and donations from supporters covered his travel and lecture expenses but not much else. This left the family. He had ten kids. This left the family in great debt. What about he had ten kids and then came up with the theory to get out of the fucking house. Oh yeah. What about oh my god what have I married into. Yeah. This will take me on the road. Yeah. I'll just say the inside of Earth's hollow. And off we go. Earth's a ping pong ball. So his family just scraped by on rents from farms inherited from his famous uncle and his brother Peyton would kick in a little cash now and then to help him out. John was said to be an intelligent informed and tireless researcher who was 100 percent convinced of his theory. He was also completely immune to shame and ridicule and critiques of his theory. He never blamed his critics for failing to see the truth. Instead he assumed it was his fault for failing to communicate his theory clearly. So this is the kind of thing where people be like well it's not actually hollow because of the way it spins and we can see the other planets and it's not and there's no holes at the end and he would go oh you're not hearing me. You're not hearing me. I'm saying it's hollow. Right. And we're saying that if you look at the science it's not hollow. OK. But there's holes at the end and it's hollow. Nope. That's where you're wrong. Everything you just said is inaccurate. OK. So you're not hearing me correctly. I'm going to explain it again. I'm hearing you correctly. OK. Just let me talk. Just let me talk. So it's hollow. Yeah. You've already said all this shit and I've already read your letter that says you're not crazy. Right. Yeah. You're crazy. OK. So then there's holes at the end. All right buddy. Great to see you. That's that was great to see. I feel like that's a conversation. He kind of sounds like a shitty comic. I was totally thinking that when I was writing this guy who's like got a bunch of shitty shitty comic books and then like even when he's explaining them stands by the fact that the explanation makes them good. Yeah. Everyone's like no. I'm just saying dude. The go ahead. The first reference to his theory is found in a letter to his stepson Anthony dated August 17th 1817. This is to his stepson. Yeah. Anthony who probably thought his dad was crazy quote from the curious formation of Saturn I infer that all planets and globes are hollow. He does not elaborate anymore and he must have written some terrific letters to his family members. Wait what. That's all he said. That was his letter. That was the letter. He didn't explain more as to why he just wrote it down. So it was real. Right. Now he mentioned Saturn because Jean Jacques de Marien had a theory about Saturn's rings. He hypothesized that the ring was a remnant of an outer shell that had broken into pieces and fallen to the Earth's surface. So that's what some guy theorized which isn't a horrible theory if you're looking at a ring. If you look at a ring around a planet so well that must be that was probably a one point of bigger sphere shell that cracked open because I looking at a young planet. I can't figure out in my little stupid 19th century brain how there could be a ring. So I just thought it was engaged to Pluto. This just looks like there's so. Pluto put a ring on it. Pretty much all astronomers dismissed the idea but John was like that's it the Saturn idea. Bingo. He then proposed that the Appalachian Mountains were the remnants of a collapsed ring that once encircled the Earth. Oh well that's not hard to picture. What? That the mountains were formed because of a shell. Yep. Yep. Fine and dandy. You're good with that? Very good with that. John was also adamant that he had come up with this theory on his own despite Hailey Benjamin Franklin's proposal that the Earth was filled with gas, Swiss mathematician, Leonhard Euler and an aboriginal mythology that also says it's. But it's outside of that. Other than all those. Outside of that. Other than those he was like mine. Yeah. I did this. John pretty much took every fact that he ran across and jammed it into his theory including descriptions of clouds, the aurora borealis, components of magnetic variation, temperature distributions, patterns of wind and ocean currents, aboriginal hunting practices, animal migrations, the distribution of driftwood on the shores of Nova Zelmia. Sorry. Zemla. Zemliel. What is this list? These are all things that he would take and go oh this fits into my hollow theory. He just had like a Frankenstein hollow theory. Any time basically any time anybody would bring something up he would go oh that works with my with my hollow Earth theory. Yeah. It doesn't matter what it was. Yeah. Okay. He would just be like that's a yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Marmalade. Yeah. Part of Earth is marmalade. Every single thing that he ran across to help prove the Earth was hollow. He also believed that since bones and feather quills were hollow then so was the Earth. You know what 2 plus 2 equals 4 means right? Uh huh. That's what we're talking about. That feels a little more dense than that. Science. That's not. John pinpointed you. I'm not crazy. I'm not. I said a letter. Here's a letter. John pinpointed that would be great if the people opened up the sanity letter before they opened up the other letter. Or they just didn't get the other letter. What the fuck is this? I'm not crazy. I'm just going to start sending those out. Hello. My name's Gareth Reynolds. Now, I'm not crazy. John pinpointed the exact location of the polar openings using patterns of isotherms, vegetation, and ice distribution. But what? What is it? I mean, it's just for what? Like, well, they, they move. They have movements, all those things and vegetation grows in certain places and ice is just distributed. But it's not proving in different because of stuff. Okay. Isotherms. I'm not crazy. Do they move on through? Listen to me and listen good. He said the southern opening was larger than the northern opening. Mmm. Sure. Why not? Why not get down to that sort of bullshit? It's like my butthole and penis. Can we talk to you over here for a second? I'm in the middle of a goddamn speech. There were some obvious problems with his theory. First, vegetables need light to grow and need warmth. Sure. On the vegetable front, John said that there's a lot of dense atmosphere in the poles, which would cause light refraction, bending the light rays and allowing it to be a nice light and warm in the middle of the earth. That's no brainer. How? Okay. So the atmosphere is, do you understand what's happening? The atmosphere is dense. There's a lot of particles. Yeah. No, I understand. We have light inside of the earth and that's where we're going to take the vegetables from. Because there's particles in it. Yeah. So it's like a lot of particles and then it would bend it into the middle of the earth. But that's what I mean. Like a mirror. Right, exactly. But at this point. So it's warm in there. Okay, you keep going. Go ahead. Well, it's just bulls... It's just there's no... Like at some point, you know, it's just like if someone's telling you an elaborate lie. No, he figured out the vegetable thing. No, I don't think that he did. When people pointed out there wouldn't be gravity in the middle of the earth so people couldn't live there, John just said Newton was wrong about gravity. Oh, no, Newton's way off. Newton's way off on this one. No, Newton's wrong on this. There's gravity inside of the earth. There's good food, good times, great music and Newton's an idiot. Reactions... Does Newton have a letter that says that he's not crazy? No, he doesn't. Well, I do. It's right here. Okay, I'm... I'd like you to read it. I'm reading it. I'm not crazy. Reactions is the scientific community. We're not the greatest. Though the occasional big scientist would encourage him. The reaction... Hey, keep going, dumbass! The reaction of natural historian Thomas Lay was more than norm. Quote, The partial insanity of this man is of a singular nature. It caused him to pervert the supporting of an evidently absurd theory, all the fact which he has been able to collect from a vast number of authorities. He appears conversant with every work of travels from herds to humbolts, and there is not a fact to be found in these which he does not manage with considerable ingenuity to bring to the support of his favorite theory. In listening to the exposition of the concovity of our globe, we felt that interest which is inevitably awakened by the aberration of an unregulated mind. So that's his way of saying he's fucking nuts. It's interesting when you go to the scientific community for validation and you're almost their study. Like the way he's like talking about him. Yeah, yeah, yeah, come on in here. We're going to talk to you. You know, he's a fascinating case. On his travels, John met and became friends with Major Thomas H. Long, who was the first... who was on the first leg of his exploration of the Northwest Territory. Major Long was one of those who responded positively to the theory. While John was mostly being ridiculed in papers in the media, he was gaining in popularity in the West, where he was spending much of his time. His personality was engaging and his writings were beginning to gain respect. Cincinnati first became a stronghold for John. His lecture tours were received positively and he started getting favorable press reports. By... Yeah, I'm shaking my head. By 1823, John's enthusiasts were hosting benefits and even began organizing the logistics of Captain Sam's polar expedition. I'm sorry? What? What was that? They're organizing the logistics of his... They're getting ready to go into the earth? They're organizing the logistics of his polar expedition to find the hole to get into the earth. So, he's finally found some people who are dumb enough to try to crawl inside of Earth's butthole. In Ohio, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, and South Carolina, people were petitioning Congress to fund the mission. John's biggest and most important convert was an Ohio newspaper editor named Jeremiah Reynolds. Reynolds became so obsessed with the polar exploration that he became John Simon's protege and the bearer of his legacy. Reynolds realized John's theory would have to be accepted by the East and particularly the people in the cities for ships to set sail to find the hole in the pole. To find the pole hole? Pole hole. Ships to... I mean, what are they gonna... It's not like a fucking bathtub drain. Reynolds convinced John to go on a tour of the East Coast. At first, it was not going well. But then it began to pick up steam as it moved through Virginia and Pennsylvania. People came out to see the crazy man lecture, but because of his personality, they left wondering if maybe he could be right. While on the tour, they learned that Count Romanov, chancellor of Russia under Tsar Alexander, was planning a polar expedition. He had heard of John's theory and wanted John to be part of the journey. But John passed and used the information to rile up audiences in Philadelphia. He told people he would go with Romanov unless his fellow countrymen sent him north on their own account. We're gonna let the Ruskies get inside of Earth's anus first. I don't think so. The ploy tapped into American nationalism. He suddenly had a new legitimacy and attendance greatly increased at his lectures. I mean, you could just picture the Fox News of it. Oh, God. Oh, God. Yeah. That's stupid. Then Reynolds and John had a fight because Reynolds publicly acknowledged that maybe people couldn't live in the middle of the Earth. Can you imagine? So that's betrayal. What the fuck happened out there? They asked me if maybe it's a possibility that people couldn't live in the middle of the Earth. Yeah, I heard what happened. I'm asking you what happened. Well, they just asked a question and I answered honestly that it's a possibility. People can live inside of Earth. We have great vegetables and fruit in there. That bends. Okay. Newton's a fucking idiot. I am not crazy. They both went to New York where they had arguments through the press. Oh, that's fun. They finally made up. Well, why don't you tell him, okay, that that theory and I am air quoting theory. He's standing right next to you. They finally made up, but the partnership was done. John left on tour in New England and Canada while Reynolds stayed in New York and promoted his own polar expedition. Oh, Jesus. Yeah, I'm going there fast. Yeah. Yeah. Now, John Symes was getting respect he had never had before. Students at Harvard embraced his theory of a hollow Earth with animals living inside of it. Animal, I mean, to the alarm of the faculty. Yeah. Okay. Good. Why did we let these people in? The faculty held special lecture lectures to try to talk the students out of their madness. And John was also catching on at other colleges as well. Respectful and enthusiastic press coverage followed John wherever he went now and public interest in the polls was greatly increasing. In late 1827, Sims chronic stomach problems became much worse. He returned to New Jersey where friend and relatives cared for him. And in February 1929, he died. His dream of a polar expedition to find the hollow Earth over when he passed the public's interest in his theories did wane. But his impact was only the beginning. Reynolds still carried the flag of the polar holes and a hollow Earth in 1828 before John's death, he met with President Quincy Adams, oh my God, secretary of the Navy, Samuel Southward. With their support, he lobbied Congress to I'm sorry, their support. What? Okay. So in the 1820s, a man went into the White House and sat down with the president of the United States and the secretary of the Navy and he told them that the Earth was hollow and that their vegetables in there and light and maybe people and animals, maybe people and smarter people perhaps and their response was let's get on this and it went well. Let's get on this. It went well. It was a good meeting. It was a good everybody at the end was nodding their head shaking hands. There weren't there was nobody was texting each other during the meeting. Yeah. Talking into their we got to get this guy out of here. We got a job in the oval. How do we get this not get through here? But is it just am I just talking to you? Yeah, it's just me. Well, what the fuck? Who is this? Isn't this supposed to go to someone else? It's the 1800s. We don't have any communication. Oh, that's right. We're just talking in our collar shirts. Congress said the president could send one of the Navy ships to explore the South Pacific to explore. I mean, what the fuck are they looking for a big fucking hole? Yeah, a portal. They're looking for a star. They're looking for a hole in the thing. Okay. All right. Reynolds was appointed sort of a human colonic. Reynolds was appointed a special agent of the Navy to oversee the journey. But in the early 1829 political infighting in the Navy killed the trip. Reynolds was not deterred. Good. He had to find the holes that led to the middle of the hollow planet. He approached the private sector and was successful. The South Sea Fur Company and Exploring Expedition paid for a private venture. Now the only reason that they would do that is because they think they're going to get rich. Yeah. They think they're going to find a bunch of shit in there. Yeah. They think they're going to go find supercows. And there's a fur company. Yeah. Because they're going to get all the pelts. Yeah. They're going to get all these minks that live inside of Earth's fucking dickhole. How many Earth minks do you think are there? Oh my God. Before we... They might be bigger minks. Oh, but I can't even go there. I can't even think about it yet. I think that little minks can survive on the top of the Earth, but the big minks are in the middle. You know, in that expedition too, there were times where it was just like some guy like, hey man, when we get inside of Earth's ass, what are you going to do? He's like, man, first thing I'm going to do, I'm going to drink me some of that cow milk they got in there, man. It's supposed to be sweeter than any milk we got here on the outside of the shell. You ain't never tasted anything like it. You ain't never tasted anything like it. Really? Because I'm going to marry a Middle Earth woman. Oh man. Get my citizen ship to live inside of Earth's belly. Three ships set sail for the South Pacific in October. The Nina the Penta, I'm not fucking crazy. And holy shit, what are we doing? October 1829. It did not go well. Oh, right. The crew's mutiny and the ship's return to New York. Reynolds was left in Chile. They just dumped him off in Chile where he wandered about for two years. Whoa. Yeah. He finally returned home in 1834 and quickly set about trying to make the expedition to the South Pole happen. Jesus. In 1836, Reynolds gave an impassioned speech to the house of representatives. To a room of cats. For another journey to the holes. The holes. A bill was passed. Oh God. And it was supported by President Jackson. Oh my God. In 1838, the Great United States Exploring Expedition set sail under the command of Lieutenant Charles Wilkes. Reynolds stayed behind. For over four years, the ship surveyed the South Pacific. They found nearly 300 islands and 1500 miles of coastal Antarctica, establishing that it was a continent. They did not find a hole in the pole that led to the middle of the planet. The U.S. was now established as a country that could make world-class scientific contributions and a precedent was set for scientific exploration and research in America. John Simpson. America's. Uh, sorry. How was not every baby named that after 9-11? Did people just didn't know that was an option? America's. This is America's and freedom-tistic. And these are our twins. Tower one. America's remained devoted to his father's theory and pushed it as far as his father had in 1871. Charles F. Hall was setting out on the ill-fated Polaris expedition to reach the North Pole. This is 1871. At a reception before his departure, Hall shocked members of the American Geographical Society by announcing his belief in John Simpson's theory and that he was determined to find the entrance to the middle of the Earth. What the fuck? Like they were like, this is gonna be great. We're finally going to the North Pole. Uh, gentlemen, I have one more thing to say. I'm gonna find the middle of this fucker! I just picture what they thought the inside of the Earth looked like. I mean, they just thought that it was just like, like that's really all that the, I mean, just so many of the dollops are really just about people having a crazy vision of something that isn't there. Can you just picture him sitting in his house doodling pictures all the time? Yeah, just doodling like him. Yeah, like him with like nine women. Like just like in like gold with like a crown on. I think there also might be a beaver man. Yeah. Like half beaver, half man. I mean, why not? It happened on Saturn, right? Also there's dinosaurs inside. Probably. Mm-hmm. Nice ones. In October, the men were wintering on the shore of northern Greenland, making preparations for the trip to the pole. Hall returned to the ship for an exploratory sledging journey and promptly fell ill. Before he died, he accused members of the crew of poisoning him. The next summation of his body in 1968 revealed that he had ingested a large quantity of arsenic in the last two weeks of his life. So he probably was killed. Yeah. Well, yeah, he was eating something he shouldn't have been. The ship did go on to make it further north than any previous ship. Then 19 men got separated and were lost for six months on an ice flow before they were rescued. The Polaris was run aground in Greenland. The remaining men were rescued the next summer. They did not find the hole into the middle of the earth. They didn't. So it's still there. The idea of a hollow planet. Just got to find that cork. The idea of a hollow planet remained alive in a small segment of the population and it continues today with those on the fringe recently having caught on with many on the internet. There is now an international society for a complete earth which uses photographs of Sims globe and its logo also two expeditions, one using a chartered Russian icebreaker and the other a specially outfitted seaplane are currently planned to find polar openings into the inner world. In the end, John Sims insane theory that he pretty much just made up ended up firing up imaginations and paved the way for the emergence of the United States as a decent contributor to the world of scientific knowledge and discovery. Yeah that really put us on the map. Now look, just because we went there to find a hole doesn't mean what we found was an important discovery. We did find the Antarctic. So we found shit. That seems to be how most things happen. Well look, if you're going somewhere to find something, does it matter what you find? Yeah. Yep. Yeah, I would say that it does matter. Here's another idea. Why don't you lift up the Antarctic? Yeah, no, just like a rug. Just lift it up like it's a dirty little rug. Maybe it's a cap. Yeah, it might be a cap. Who knows? Maybe it's a cat. We don't know. I know one thing. I'm not crazy. Okay? 2016, let's pop the cap. Come on guys. Get your bottle openers out. We're on quark and earth. Or cat. Or cat, whatever it is. Big minx. Yeah. Oh man, you got to see the camels here. They have three humps. What? Women have one breast. Upside down is downside up. Hello's goodbye. You're going to love it. Oh, Lake made out of chocolate. Young is old. Old is young. Willy Wonka runs it all. Cats are dogs. Cats are dogs. Dogs are cats. Mice are rats. Rats are mice. It's just like a Dr. Seuss. It's just the Dr. Seuss novel. Man, is this some dense material. Holy shit. I got to re-read that sentence. I'm sorry. What did he? Will not eat them in a van? I can't get through this cat in the head business. It's a long slog. I'm doing my thesis on the who's a whoville and it is just hard. It's hard to crack. I got three quarters of the way through. We have to cite everything. Have you tried to read Yerdel the Turtle? No way. It's just so in depth. It's so dense. It's too much. It's dense. It is dense. It's dense. It's not.