 We're gonna know who you are Dave Anthony you just fucked up the show Yeah Not Gary Gara okay someone or something is tickling is it for fun and this is not gonna come to tickling clock Okay, you are Queen fakie of made-up town all hail Queen shit of Liesville a bunch of religious virgins go to Mingle and do what? Go Gary Gareth. Ah sake Come on, that one's real far away Jesus you really hit me with that one Charles F. Lamb built the just 1929. That's all I'm giving you Charles F. Lamb built the Lamb funeral home in 1929 on Orange Grove Boulevard in Pasadena and Just to be clear it was it was for humans not lamps correct There was not a really not our first issue. It's not a funeral home for lambs. Yeah, but that would be awesome You give yeah, they get lambodim is the lamb funeral home was the essence of an old style Mortuary operated by a family that was all American the stuff of advertising copy in fact the family once appeared in magazine ads Flanking their old reliable Maytag washer while dad's football team uniforms flapped in the breeze wait what they look so American they looked like such an American people that they were in a Maytag Okay, I thought like a tie-in with the funeral home Maytag I mean that would be awesome like they just have like a bunch of bones and a dryer And they're just like can you believe it? Really gets the gets the whites in gets the whites gets the clean The whites are wider and the blood is gone There was the fun Jerry sconce 55 who was a Bible college football coach his wife Lorianne lamb sconce 52 a church organist and their son David 32 a charming ex football player David was the one who had big plans to grab a large piece piece of California's booming cremation industry I mean I already just you know What? cremation is not good nothing can go wrong here. I do not The drawing room chapel of his Spanish mission-style building was filled with comfortable sofas and armchairs in the slumber rooms Families were encouraged to make themselves as much at home as though they were in their own Residence according to an old company brochure at the funeral. Yep. I don't think you want people back It is a home in every sense of the word I'm just gonna take a nap. You know what I'm gonna make some spaghetti You guys mind if I take a bath all right, I'm gonna go take a bath and then I'm gonna have a barbecue out back with some of my closest friends lamb sir, I'm gonna get shit I'm growing bot in the closet I'm gonna go bang a whore in here Lambs that is home to you, isn't it? Lambs served as president of the state funeral directors association and passed on the business to his son Lawrence who became president of the Pasadena school board. So these guys are all up in Pasadena. Okay, like they're a Prominent family. Sure. Yeah, they were in a Maytag Lori Ann one of Lawrence's two daughters was bright and so pretty that a rival mortician would describe her as quote movie star Beautiful she carried herself with manners and behavior befitting of the family's position in the community Arrival mortician is like, no, she's beautiful. She's so hot. I wish she was dead No, he strokes his little mustache. No, she's just movie star. I want to embalm her He often sprinkled Her conversations with she often sprinkled their conversations with biblical quotations and wrote sacred songs for her own gospel Gospel Okay, it's funny that you wrote sacred songs. They were very sacred. It's hard to you know, that's normally something that comes with time Her God gospel group was called the Chapel bells Be lles Hello, what's up girl? We're playing for the Lord Lori Ann was her father's favorite and she was very helpful with the business She had a gift for consoling survivors at the mortuary Some of whom gave her money to save for their own funerals That's weird. Isn't that what does spouses? That's that's some fucking upselling right there. Yeah, yeah, right Oh, I'd love to give you some future investment in my dad's. I'm so sorry about your wife. Couldn't you also buy something for yourself when you die? You know, I haven't bought myself something in quite some time. Maybe maybe a coffin Look at my ass With the help of her husband a former football coach at Azusa Pacific College Lori Ann began taking control of the business from her parents in 1978. This was just at the time the public's interest in cremation Blossomed what year? 1978 In North America, there were only two recorded instances of cremation before 1800 But things started to heat up in 1876 when dr. Julia you like that I put that in I threw that shit in when dr. Julius Le Mouin built the first crematory in Washington, Pennsylvania in 1884 the second crematory opened in Lancaster, Pennsylvania and as was true of many of the early crematories It was owned and operated by a cremation society I'm sorry It's a cremation society Yeah, uh-huh sure. So just like the mace masonry of burning people. So there was I guess society for cremating other forces behind Okay, that's it. Yeah, so it's like a group that you would you would like all pitch in to buy So you could all be burned like a timeshare. Yeah cremation cremation share sure other forces behind early crematory openings were Protestant clergy who desired to reform burial practices and the medical profession concerned with health conditions around early cemeteries. So they were you know, they were worried about the spread of disease Which makes a lot of sense as we've learned crematories soon sprang up in Buffalo, New York, Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Detroit and Los Angeles by 1900 There were already 20 crematories open or in operation And by the time that dr. Hugo Erickson founded the cremation association of America in 1913 There were 52 operating in North America And over 10,000 cremations took place that year So we're burning them up. Yeah in the late 50s Only 10% of the dead in America were cremated in 1975 the name was changed to the cremation association of North America To be more indicative of the membership composition of the United States and Canada So they were like in Mexico. They never wanted to get fried up in Canada. So they brought it all At the time there were over 425 crematories and 150,000 cremations a year. That's in the in uh, 1975 By the 80s people were searching for less expensive ways to get rid of a loved one's corpse And the number of people going for cremation was around 40 percent. Wow. That's trickle down economics So far Thanks girl Funal parlors began scrambling to get in on the action of burning up people up Cremation is especially more popular in the western united states part of which is due to demographic factors, which are It's hipper. I think I I think yeah, maybe Maybe less like there's less large families As opposed on the east coast where you'd have more generational. Okay, like you would you would have a family plot or whatever sure Uh, oh here you go Families, I would like to be buried in your family's plot. Well the way that we're gonna We're gonna handle you is when you die We're gonna drag you behind a pickup truck across the united states Tied just tied to the back come see gary Quote families no longer stay in the old hometown the way they used to having the traditional family plot in a hometown cemetery Just doesn't make sense for people who might never be there anyway Said john slocum executive director of the non-profit funeral consumers alliance I just love that there's always groups and since cremation is usually cheaper than burial. It's an attractive prospect for the budget conscious So burning people was in and the lambs wanted a big part of the dead right A very aggressive market came about Said john w. Gill executive officer of california's cemetery board This was especially true. It's so they're the tombstone association This was especially true in southern california where price competitiveness in low-cost cremation was fierce I don't like that. Why because that just means that you know, it's it's it's sort of like a lacyx surgery Yeah, I don't want to go to like a good guy to give you a good lacyx surgery But the second lacyx becomes popular. You're gonna find a bunch of shady people who are like I can fix your eyes. I don't know. I don't know why you would even think that I could burn you for 100 What's wrong with that? Come on down. I'll burn you up for 35 dollars. We're not having to do a good place on july 1st 1984 david David's the youngest the 32 year old least the pasadena crematorium from his mom operating the business as his own coastal cremations incorporated of which david sconce We were just real comfortable throwing it out there We have gotten less comfortable with like calling shit what it is now. We're like it's the rainbow association one It just hurts children better than burning them up. Yeah. Yeah burning them up ink crispy pink Ghost of cremations incorporated of which david sconce was president dealt mainly as a wholesaler to other mortuaries Charging only 55 dollars for each cremation about half what competitors charge. So sorry. So they're they're like they're like The The big corp that they'll just take the bodies. They'll cremate them and then they'll give you the ashes Right they burn it up and then they hit the wall mark of burning people. Yeah, the mcdonald's burning people Yeah, sure. Sure. In addition, there was no extra charge for picking up a body and returning the ashes The mortuaries in turn would charge customers anywhere from 265 to a thousand dollars for cremation services So it's a pretty big markup To many who knew him david sconce was the model youth a one-time defensive back for his father at a suzer pacific with a Surfer's wave of blonde hair But he had been in some trouble Notably when he admitted to police that he had broken into the house of a girlfriend's parents When she refused to go out with him anymore after stealing their stereo equipment He coolly joined them in their pew at church Although he was caught he avoided jail after leading police to the stolen equipment. Wait, okay, so he's He broke Baller move man He does how to get in He certainly does You won't go out with me. Well, fuck you I'm gonna break your parents. I'm still their stereo and then act out cool. I know. I'm gonna fucking pray with your ass I'm gonna get upping your shit and pray. Oh, man You've heard it a million times the way to steal a parent's stereo Soon the two ovens at the family crematory in Alta Dina the oldest cremation furnaces west of the Mississippi were running 16 to 18 hours a day The Alta Dina is like three miles away The Alta Dina is like three miles from my house. Yeah in David's first year in the operation cremations went up nearly 1,000 from 194 to 1,675 they doubled and redoubled reaching 8,173 in 1985 as a fleet of vans station wagons and trucks fanned out picking up corpses from all over southern california It's what it's so weird. What do you mean? It's weird. It's just weird Dude, I'm not saying we do things right now. Look and you are a victim of the custom a little bit, right? But that's weird. It's not look a guy found a Business that it would work. Yeah, but it's like a drive-through. It's supply and demand It's gross David scott's was rolling it He flashed wads of money and cruised around in a candy apple red Mercedes Benz and a white corvette with a personalized license plate That displays his hilarious sense of humor No, I space brn space for you it read. Oh my god car Like a lot of people are probably like that has to be the devil driving me I burnt for you. I burnt for you. Oh fuck He attended hockey games with a bunch of big x football players that he called his boys Scots's boys listened to his boasts ran as errands and roughed up his enemies David scott's used his to test his strength according to one former employee By heaving bodies in their cardboard boxes around the mortuary like bags of grain Oh god, what what do you mean? What? He's he's showing off how strong he is Oh my god, this is a bit a businessman recalled that david looked him up and down one day and declared him a one-hander That meant david wouldn't even need two hands to sling his small body into the oven. Oh my god Oh my god, so he's just like I mean this is a drive-thru this is fast. Yeah fast burn. Yeah, it's fast burn. He's also taking weird Yeah, you know, you're you're not a little too inside your business. Well, it's also apparently it's also a one-hander Oh, I'm sorry. You don't know what that means. That means that I could throw you into the oven to burn you with one hand shrimp I think we well, he also uses the he also uses the places of workout sort of area. Oh cool. Yeah Tim waters was a 300 pound burbank mortician who had a reputation for honesty But was unpopular among competitors in the cremation trade because he aggressively took business away from them He spread rumors that the sconces were cremating more than one body at a time according to richard gray who runs Jesus aftercare funeral services in van eyes aftercare The rumor began spreading through the industry that the sconce family were not burning bodies individually as required by law Ron haste Ron haste editor of a newsletter called mortuary management Hello Please hold I just love hey the new episode of mortuary management here new mortuary management Kelly finally leaves The editor asked Lorian sconce to state in writing in 1984 that her cremations were done individually David sconce became angry And said he was going to have his boys pay the editor a visit No boy haste and his roommate were then attacked by david edwards a former pierce college football player and another man posing as policeman who through quote Ammonia vinegar and jalapeno juice and anything else we could put together in their eyes I mean, would you be clear with your plan? Well, we've got jalapeno juice and ammonia sconce then offered edwards uh the same amount to beat up waters for spreading the rumors edwards and associate took cash from waters but uh Never beat him up because too many police cars were near his alpha society crematory in burbank The day they went by sure then on february 12 1985 Tim waters was bloodied by danie gallambos a 245 pound x football player who carried business cards reading big men unlimited I'm hoping there was nothing else on them There's no like what the joker would be behind A nice little fuck you two months later after spending easter ill in bed at his mother's house in Camarillo waters died of a heart attack A state investigator in southern california was suspicious of the sconce Crematory and began trying to find out how the cremations were being done But he was denied entrance to the alphadena facility because he did not have a search warrant You cool with that? Are you cool with that? No No, okay. Well, if you're interested as to what i'm thinking there's no fucking way that they're burning one body at a time What shady as fuck Is has lost himself lost himself. Yes has lost himself in the process of Of thinking that he's like the cool crematorium. He's the cool crematorium guy He's the quarterback of the burning. He's got a fucking rad vet and a Mercedes and he's I burned for you. I burned for you, baby People think that it's like I burned for you like I burned for you love wise, but it's actually I burned for you Like I'm actually burning you up Oh, I can only imagine he was Just shredding it up Yeah Other funeral homes did not uh did not uh, what is oh god auto-crack Other funeral homes did not begin uh to be suspicious even though the low cost high volume Operations should have raised many flags Everyone was pretty pleased with the profit margins and the funeral directors were reassured by the sterling lamb name but dr. Thomas Weber owner of the telephase society a pioneer in the field of low cost barrier Burial said the deal was too good to be true If somebody offers you a four for 8000 and i'm paying 16 000 something's not right. He said I know this this man makes sense a former employee reported improper activities at the funeral home and crematorium to the department of health on june 9th 1986 the recommendation to investigate was apparently lost in bureaucratic papers What it's good. It's good to know that nothing's changed Because you still wouldn't be able to get to the bottom of that today at all The department lost it the thing that means everything we have so many papers The department then approved david's permit to harvest human eyes and tissue for transplants eight days later on june 17th 1986 what What well that's quite a 180. What do you mean quite a cinderella story? Investigate this man to see if he's throwing bodies in two to more at a time to Do what you want with eyes Take eyes get the eye game Go have fun with the eyes get me. I can't you can only imagine what this this dude was playing ping pong with eyes like legal I'll burn for you, baby Getting the eye game, baby. I'm in the eye game, baby Of uh, uh, is he on quirk sub champagne? Had a little bit of good news today. Shit just got real I'm gonna be able to uh start to harvest some of these eyeballs Yeah, I don't have to throw them out anymore. Anyway, anyway, the bedroom you want to get it on I'm burning for you In october david began cremating bodies in hisperia at oscars ceramics telling officials that he was making tiles wait Sorry one more time In october david began cremating bodies in hisperia at oscars ceramics telling officials that he was making tiles Were you about to go on? That's quite a jump Well, he needed it. He was burning so many bodies. He needed a new place to burn a tile place We bought a he bought oscars ceramics. He bought a ceramics place and Started burning bodies in the kiln Don't you like to party for a second there. I thought it was like still a ceramics place as well Well, well, I mean he bought he bought it. No, I don't they weren't making ceramics anymore But he just bought the place that just bought the place and then but he lied about it Which is not a good way. He lied to officials. He said he was making ceramics. Yeah, okay tiles Yep, they were where are these tiles? Huh? Oh, they're in there. Oh, all right over there. That's larry. Hey You're not supposed to be in here. Hello, pino juice get it in the eyes boys He installed ovens for what was listed on business permits as a ceramics factory On the morning of November 23rd 1986 At the crematory employee John Halonen and another worker loaded 38 bodies into two furnaces Each measuring 3.5 feet high by 4 feet wide by 8 feet long That broke the previous record of 18 bodies in one furnace You're really not finessing the fact that they are now like it's just so not only is it two to three bodies They're like, oh man a new record What have they fucking broke a record man give a little bit of credit You know, it is a pretty like empty thing if you really think about it like it's just ashes it's really pointless but People should be able to do it with someone's fucking ashes if that's what they want Well, they're getting some ashes. Yeah. Oh, yeah, they're getting some. Yeah, it could but they're they're loved ones I mean some of their loved ones Say goodbye to grandma and those 35 strangers who are mixed in with her Halonen had to break the leg of one body to get it in and that might have blocked up the chimney The block chimney started a fire that burned down the building A body clog a body clog oh my god All right. All right. I see the problem here It looks like you got 19 bodies in this one. Yep We're evil Oh, you broke the leg of that one. Yeah, you want you don't want to go in easy. So we just shattered his leg Well, that's why uh, the fire started because he clogged you there's a body clogged and here we are high five and we set the record Look at how I went in there His facility destroyed David sconce quietly moved the entire operation to his barrier Sorry, were there no questions about like hey, you lied. You're just burning Doesn't look like it. Okay. Good times Uh, David sconce quietly moved the entire operation to his barrier 20 miles north of sam burnardino in the high desert the oven ovens ran for two months before a phone call was made So the place in althadena burned down putting all the bodies in it So he moved the entire operation out to his barrier to the ceramics place. Uh-huh and then and then uh, so it makes a phone call What do you mean someone makes a phone call on January 20th 1987 assistant has buried a fire chief will wentworth listened incredulously as a caller complained that the noxious black smoke smoke pouring from a nondescript building in the desert carried a Sickeningly sweet smell of burning flesh. Oh sweet god I don't think so. It's a ceramics shop went worth replied. Don't tell me they're not burning bodies I was at the ovens that outshwhits the man said Jesus christ Wentworth was still skeptical when he drove out to oscar ceramics and opened one of the massive brick furnaces A burning foot fell out. Oh god Oh just Oh That's not tile Uh, that is so that's tile. We're doing foot tiles. You don't prepare yourself to try to have a burning foot just fall No, it's weird. It's very I don't know. I got a holocaust survivor sitting a little bullshitty. Oh, there's a foot. Hey, that's a hot foot hot foot Hey, look out scot around the inside like an athlete's foot commercial scattered around the interior Caked black with the accumulated bodily grime from the brick ovens were trash cans brimming with human ashes and prosthetic devices Um What like a Arm, oh, just like a glass like a fake armor glass eye body parts Oh my god. Yeah, it's like the island of misfit toys but with ash And people and humans in the rear of the funeral home was the so-called ash palace Where employees jim dame testified that he sifted ashes trucked in from the crematory in big barrels Jerry sconce told him to put in three and a half to five pounds of ash if the deceased was a female And five to seven pounds for a male. What is the point of even using human ash? You can tell that don't see human ash in regular ash. All right He said he never put the ashes from just one body in the urns that were returned to families Yeah, no, it's like it's It's awful. No, it's fine. I mean, it's just so bullshit You know what a man finds a way to make business more efficient and everyone gets upset with them, but this is Oh, I'm sorry Dave. Yeah, I'm sorry. We're coming down hard on this guy. Oh, yeah Well, a guy finally made the trains run on time and you're all mad at him. Yeah Yeah By the time of the hisperia raid the sconces had built a business empire collecting human remains from san diego to san And barbara up to 100 bodies would lie in the mortuary's coal waiting room Transportation to the crematory where david used a wood two by four to pack them into wood ovens like cordwood What difference does it make a witness were called david scott saying they're dead? Oh, Jesus Then why not tell everyone david? And they weren't just profiting from the burning of bodies The family may the family business may have once been a respected mortuary But now it was a cut rate body factory where the dead were mined like ore deposits Oh eyes brains and gold filled teeth were sold without the knowledge of relatives Oh my god while workers competed to see who could stuff the most bodies into the ovens. Oh my god It's like oompa. Loomp is gone I mean no one's being killed Well, they're all dead Still you want to know no look i'm not i can't i mean there's just You can't take someone's brain Well, you can i mean you can but ethically you shouldn't if you're well, i mean what are ethics Dude, what's well family? Well family friends tried to put all the blame on david scott's employees also implicated his parents in the operation of the tissue bank Hearts lungs brains eyes and corneas were taken from corpses and sold through a company called coaster coastal international eye and tissue bank I mean we really got to get back to the the honest names Very clear what they do Which was located next door to the lamb fulmer home Should they would just feel like it was like takeout did anyone put two and two together Oh god, i mean imagine seeing those two next to each other me like well Let's get out of here Hey, you know what maybe we shouldn't bring mom to this one. Yeah Because next door it says a stolen tissue brokers. Yeah, let's get some Kleenex The bank in a three month period sold 136 brains 145 hearts and 100 lungs to a north carolina firm Supplying organs for research to medical schools. It's just like the old days. Yeah, it is it's it's somehow It's it's like the 1980s version A handwriting expert hired by the los angeles county district attorney's office said laurian sconce had signed the names of survivors On some of the forms permitting organ removal It is a felony to take organs without permission In one case survivors were prevented from viewing their loved one's body because the eyes had already been taken Oh god, oh my god How do you explain that you don't I mean you don't you close the eyes or I mean I don't know what you do What are your fucking options? You tell the family they can't see the fucker can't see it. There's the problem with the face Yeah While operating the funeral home jerry sconce served as a bible school football coach And his wife was the church organist And david was making five thousand to six thousand dollars a month pulling gold teeth and selling them selling them to a glendora jeweler He would pry open the mouths with the screwdriver and then use pliers to pull out gold filled teeth in a bone shattering operation He had two nicknames for this process. I don't like either of them popping chops. Oh god And making the pliers sing They're both I hate them both for different reasons But I think poppin chop is the worst. Okay, just because that's kind of like hey the old poppin chop This practice led to the employees Giving their boss the nickname little hitler. I mean, it's just a fun work environment They're they're calling they're calling the boss little hitler for taking out gold while they're packing bodies into a oven And they're calling him little hitler. I'll tell you if there's one thing they got right its nicknames Nailed it. I mean As investigators began looking into all aspects of david sconce They came across his group of large boys david edwards would plead guilty to beating the editor host Testifying that david sconce had paid him seven to eight hundred dollars to do so Galambos also pleaded guilty to assaulting mortician tim waters. He testified that david sconce told him to make it look like a robbery So he also stole waters jewelry Edwards then revealed more about tim waters. His heart attack had not actually been a heart attack Edward said sconce told him he arranged to have waters called the way to answer a phone at a restaurant Then walked past the table and slipped poison into his water glass Water's body was exhumed where upon the corner discovered waters had been poisoned by oleander Waters waters has been poisoned waters waters was Was bad waters the end he poisoned poison any water if it's his it's Poison waters. You see You see you see I get yeah, I got it David sconce was facing charges on 69 criminal counts for what including unlawful removal of body parts from human remains Hey, that's a big one multiple cremation of human remains and assault on arrival morticians stealing dental gold and Commingling human remains as well as the murder of tim waters. Jesus. He really had a good bracket. He had a fucking run Man the stress that dude must have been under. Oh my god. Could you imagine? Did you imagine killing people just so you can keep cremating people the scarface of bodies? Yeah, just because you're stacking teeth up counting fucking money Being brash as fuck But then you know the FBI is breathing down your neck like the end of good fellas And then you take it out to his spariot and get away from yeah, then you get away from the hot and the heat And then you get in the brain game When you throw your hat in the brain and heart ring I want to get out of the brain game, but I can't and you hear some of your buddies are starting to cave and you're like Oh fuck. Oh fuck. Oh my god. This whole thing might collapse me try to stop selling brains and the brain the brain guys like You can't get out now. Yeah, you get out and I'll tell everybody you've been selling brains. Don't give me that fucking brain I'm gonna fucking kill you Shit, I gotta get more brain. You keep the brains come on. I take your brain. You understand what I'm talking about sconce I gotta take my goddamn brain. That's where the evil is Uh Tsuru shoei tani's mother was cremated in november 1986 with 37 strangers Shoei tani's last wish was to be returned to japan so that her ashes could be honored in three separate locations Nishi Hongani temple in oh, I probably should say that right and nishi Honganji Temple in Kyoto the family altar in her son's home in owakayama city and the nearby family plot where her husband is buried So that's what she wanted to have all her. Yeah sweet sweet dream But during the hundred day, but during the hundred day ritual that accompanies a buddhist burial Nuno felt compelled to tell her family in japan that her mother's ashes may Have been mingled with others The nishi Hong Jangji temple refused to accept the remains and the burial ritual was canceled Yeah, not surprised a copper urn now sits in a relative's home and no one knows what to do with it Well, I think we can do better than that. I don't think my mother will ever be at rest. She said Jesus. Well, I mean I Okay Ed shane and his family used to joke about what might be buried under the house they rented in glendora The house was formally rented by david sconce. Oh boy Oh god But the joke stopped being funny when shane who was replacing a screen over a crawl space entry And he spotted human remains. Oh my god There he found a pile of jarred bones teeth and prosthetic devices. Oh my god. Oh god We have no idea what else is in the yard. Shane said we're moving out of here as soon as we can Jesus Jesus Uh, it's terrible sconce had had all space finding bones. That's pretty much up there with nightmares Sconson had the front and backyards bulldozed before moving out according to shane Yeah, if a guy's moving out of a house that he's renting and he's bulldozing the yards You call the police being like really for the next tenant Who bulldozes the yards in a house they were renting? Yeah, yeah before they leave. I mean I just want the next guy to have a nice lawn Pay it forward for the deal, you know Just doing my part. You know what this is anyway, don't ever dig here I mean, look a lot of people will clean the house top to bottom. I like to bulldoze the yard Look, I'm just looking to get the security deposit back. So I'm just gonna bulldoze the yard Glendora police filled two 20 by 11 inch boxes with charred dentures dental bridges skull bones And bombing tools heart pacemaker wires and at least two dozen prosthetic devices And a soft drink can containing several teeth What's under your house? Not a soft drink full of teeth Below said police also found pieces of brick and fiberglass insulation that appear to have been part of a kiln or crematory Police were unable to identify any of the remains or ascertain how many bodies were involved But they used dental records to help with identification Wisconsin moved out in early 1987 Police then learned that David had also attempted to slit the murder of his grandparents Lawrence and Lucille lamb Jesus Bristol the manager What? It's very evil. He's rolling. He's fucking lord. He's going for it. He's like Tony's fran of a bone You know, here's the thing if you're gonna get into a business fucking jump in kill your grandparents I mean make it all happen. Hey, man. Like we like we always say if you're gonna get into business Think about killing your grandparents. Well, what are you gonna do? Okay? So what are you gonna do? The other option is the other option is to half acid Yeah, the other option is to not drive a cherry red Mercedes that says I burned for you And be a normal person Bristol the manager of the very illegal tissue bank revealed that sconce told him in December 1986 that he wanted to poison his grandparents so that his mother would inherit the funeral home Bristol said that sconce asked him five or six times Times for an untraceable poison that could be put in his grandparents water cooler Hey, uh, hey, buddy. Uh, you see the game last night. You see the game last night. Can I get some poison? Hey, um Boy, I can't believe they kicked that field goal last minute. That's something. Yeah, all right breaker. They're gonna miss the playoffs because Yeah, it looks like it. Yeah Hey, um, what's an untraceable poison to kill my grandparents with so I can get the funeral home. I'm sorry Crazy game Where the brackets are shaping up. Yep. I need to kill my grandparents through their water cooler. What would they do? I have to take this brain over to the brain pile. Oh cool David sconce his mother and his father were all charged together for dozens of crimes Throughout the hearing the sconces sat together sometimes talking to those in the court with and smiling at witnesses as they recounted their experiences at the lamb funeral home But after the hearing the family went their separate ways David's parents said they knew nothing of their son's crimes at the business and their trials were separated David sconce complained in jail that the case against him was trumped up by prosecutors And funeral industry bigwigs quote people with big places expensive caskets Who want to quash innovators? Yeah innovators. Yep Yeah, he got to be you gotta admit he's an innovator in the industry He's big innovator. He's making it a big. No. He's innovating. He's innovative one at a time 19 at a time guys making changes Making changes making outside of the box make it burn using kilns. Yeah, you see that right? Yeah, I'm treating people like clay Right. Sure cool He denounced his industry as the quote most infighting backbiting rumor spreading letrus treacherous people you ever want to meet in your life 20 of them David was then charged with planning to kill the prosecuting attorney wall louis David conceded that he wrote louis will die on the wall of the jail But insisted it was part of a larger message that was erased by jail snitches Yeah, the full message was laurence will die of aids Well, you know, you got a good defense enough to say that Is that where you should start you should definitely start with like No, it was just that there was this sale and I knew laurence wanted a lazy boy And I saw these coupons and I was like laurence will die when he sees these prizes I'm a good guy. Come on you guys Uh, he said it quote it was stupid, but it was funny Sure That's what he said. Yeah, okay. That was his defense. Yeah, it was stupid, but it was funny But it ain't come on, huh? Huh? Somebody raise the punch. Come on guys Scots played guilty and was sentenced in 1989 to a five-year prison term for mutilating corpses Conducting mass cremations at a ceramics kiln and hiring thugs to rough up three competing morticians The charge of plotting to kill the prosecutor was dropped Three years later a past in the superior court jury found there was insufficient evidence To prove the misdemeanor counts against laurence and jerry The jury also acquitted a murder in the court The jury also acquitted laurence of conspiring to steal and sell body parts to a tissue bank The panel voted 11 to 1 to acquit jerry sconce of the same charge and judge william Masterson declared a mistrial on the count jurors deadlocked on six felony counts that laurence forged signatures on organ donor consent forms and unlawfully moved removed body parts So they were guilty too Fuck yeah, yeah In 1992 the civil suit against all the owners of the lamb funeral home was settled wednesday for 15.4 million I didn't have to put the wednesday part in there, but no, but it's nice to know. Yeah, that happened on it happened on a wednesday I humped it. Yeah Relatives of more than 5,000 deceased people shared in the agreement approved by the court But that's so I mean that that's really nothing right? I mean that's like no it's shit. Yeah, they didn't get anything in And then how much money does the family even have at that point? Who knows the price tag? Right the rest of us all yeah Prosecutors filed two new charges against david sconce accusing of soliciting the murder of ellie estifon owner of the cremation society of california And a bad sense of humor when it comes to aids Estifon said that before he took over the business in 1986 Sconce had been negotiating for it Estifon never had any run-ins with david sconce, but on the night the business was transferred to him several people broke into the offices The previous owner who lived on the premises drove them off by shouting that he had a gun I I just want to point out that there's a guy living in a The cremation society of california cool. Yeah Oh There's a guy just living in there. Yeah. Yeah, so do you want to go to your place or my place? I have roommates. Uh my place your place your place. My place. That's a big place. My place has a big offensive your place Do you like to smell it's 40 if you're breaking legs. Do you like to smell the dead? I mean, um Do you want a hair lamp? We can start a fire if you want how much is your brainway? Hey, can I take your eyes? The judge who dismissed the case recommended the that prosecutors appeal after a couple of rounds of appeals sconce ended up pleading guilty to murder conspiracy in 1997 And was placed on lifetime probation. Oh my god a very unusual sentence in california a very unusual sentence anywhere lifetime probation lifetime probation that sounds like a movie Eight years after the discovery of the bodies lorraine lorraine and jerry were again tried and convicted on april 12th 1995 of 11 charges Okay, jerry sconce 60 and lorraine lamp sconce 57 were each sentenced to three years and eight months in prison They got more That was all they got. Yeah, but they still got more than lifetime probation I mean, that's true Well, that's ridiculous As a result of the case the california legislature passed a bill authorizing inspection of crematories on demand. Good. Yeah Yeah, that makes sense. That makes fucking sense. Yeah Yeah, yeah, Jesus Llorian sconce's two brothers kirk and bruce lamb attempted to restore the business Hey, buddy find a new racket Your name ain't no good here no more Okay, sorry they ruined it for the family Okay, sorry they ruined it for the family. His nickname was little hitler Sorry Kirk and bruce lamb other hitlers changed their names. They weren't like, um I've been thinking about going into like religion or like things like that Hitler h it l er I just can't get that to the burning party business. I love it so It's just so fun. I like to work with the dead. I'm sorry. My brother was bad Kirk and bruce lamb attempted to restore the business to its original purpose as a quiet family funeral home They did not believe all of the accusations but admitted that there Was too much evidence to deny that something went very wrong Yeah, sure The lamb brothers agreed to surrender their funeral home's current license but applied for another one and received a license to operate a new business on East orange grove boulevard under a new name the pastina funeral home Oh boy Oh boy I know what you're talking about. I think Well, they either ran the business for a while and sold it or they never started a new one But I can't find their name. I couldn't find any records of a pastina funeral home But there is an avalon pastina funeral home owned by somebody else. So maybe they sold it But either way I just feel like the state even though their brothers are the guy like how about the family not working the business? Yeah, no, look, it's like we wrap it up. It's like jeb. He's george dubby's brother. Yep. I'm sorry Yeah, you gotta just take a ruin. I'm sorry But these guys are like god damn it. We gotta restore our name in the dead business. Come on man People love the way we used to handle the dead. Yeah, we used to be so good man People love they'd be like you guys are so good with dead people. We'd love to start cool a little shirt I love how you burned my mom I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I