 What are you doing? You're trying like voices now? Look, I'm just trying to make this thing, I'm trying to make this thing breathe a little bit. It's breathing. It's breathing fine. Put on some socks. It's like you. God, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gara. Steve, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling quite good. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do my pray. Hi, Gary. No, has he done my friend? No, no. That one's far away. That's it? Yeah, that's it. November 16th, 1958. 1958. How you doing? Hey, all right. Timothy Anderson. Tim A. Was born to George, a laundry truck driver, and Jacqueline, a dental assistant in Chicago. Okay. His sister, Aaron, was born a year later. Tim suffered from ulcerative colitis since infancy. Is that the same thing as, I don't know, a disease that causes inflammation and sores in the lining of the large intestine? When it was finally diagnosed, doctors said there was no cure and Tim had to go on a special diet. Tim learned to control and hide the pain and symptoms. He was blond, gullick and athletic, and he learned to fight as well. Enrolled in Little League at age six, he became a good pitcher, and Tom's mom enrolled him in karate as well, and soon he was kickboxing. Okay. Jesus. He loved the fight, Jim, from the moment he walked in. Everything he had learned about eating the right foods, about controlling his pain, about denying his illness, had a reason. Oh, God, that's another fucking auto-correct. You know what I'm just, I'm realizing what it is. I use pages on Mac, and the auto-correct on there is fucking horrible. Yeah. It's a shame when you have an auto-correct that's trying to do too much for you. It's really just like- And then you can't even fix words that you want to- Yeah. Like it's not as easy as other- It's a pain. Yeah. It's a good throw, they know how to do better, Mac. Here was a place where he could prove he was not weak. He learned to fight while his stomach was bad. He learned how to control his bowels when food was running right through him, and some of the guy was punching him in the guts. Right. You like that? I think we've all learned that. I think, but I think- That's just saying he didn't shit his pants and he wants a medal. Well, this is a guy who didn't shit his pants while he was getting punched in his shit place. But how many- I mean, look, I'm not trying to take down the lore of this, but you know, I think most boxers- I've never watched a boxing match or an MMA fight where a guy- Yeah, but he has colitis. I mean, yes, I get that. Sure. All right. Which is like, I'm shitting myself now, disease. Yeah, I didn't realize- He's getting punched in the tum-tums. Yeah, okay. And he's not pooping all over everybody. I mean, I'm just- If I can use the technical terms. It's just, it is, it's hard. It's a hard thing to get credit for. I don't know, I feel like I should get credit for not shitting myself. No, I think that's kind of how we- I think everyone who doesn't shit themselves should get credit for it. Well, that's going to be a lot of credit. Jacqueline, his mother, became sick from a rare lung disease when Tim was in high school. Erin, his sister, broke her neck in a diving accident in the summer of 1976 when she was 16. So that's why we have to have those little weird diving things on the side of pools. Yep. That's a picture of her. A picture of a person when they- That's crazy. Yeah. Tim began boxing locally, entering under the name Rocky Mundo. Oh boy. It was Mundo as his mother's maiden name, but Rocky, it seems like he just- Rocky Mundo? It seems like he just liked the Rocky movie. But yeah. Yeah. Wait, does he know the Rocky movie? Well, he named himself Rocky Mundo and Rocky came out in 1976, right? Yeah, what year are we talking now? I think it's right around 1976, 1977. That's kind of hacky. Yeah, that's pretty great. By the time he went away to college to play baseball, so he's been picked by college to play baseball. Sure. He had fought more than 150 times and lost no more than a handful. And didn't shit his pants once. Never shit himself once, Jimmy. Rocky never shit his pants Mundo. In this corner wearing wipe, and he will not shit his pants. And in this corner, shitty Marquez who shits himself all the time. I don't like this for matchup. Hitting his pants Marquez is a favorite in this fight to shit his pants. He's fought 115 fights, shit his pants every single one of those fights. 115 shits. He said how he prepared for the fight was he ate bad crab. Oh my God. Tim's mother died when he was 20. The Chicago Cubs took him on and sent him to Boca Raton, Florida to play in the minor leagues. I just want to point out how weird of a shift that was. That was a weird shift. Okay. But his mother did have cancer. We had already stated that. Yeah. And then she passed and then he got drafted by the Cubs. Okay. And then he went to Boca Raton. Also tragic. Yeah. Yeah. Let's play for the most winless team in the American history. Let's play for the Chicago Droughts. To make extra money, Tim became a bouncer at a club in Fort Lauderdale where he met also, none of that sounds good. Yeah. Being a bouncer at a club in Fort Lauderdale. Yeah, that sounds like a terrible question. You may as well just call yourself mullet. That sounds like something you get sentenced to by a judge. Like a 70s or 80s being a bouncer in Fort Lauderdale. No, that's horrendous. Give me the loaded gun option. That's where he met lifelong friend Jim Murphy, who was another bouncer. Quote, I gave Tim an herbal mix for his problems and the results came pretty quickly. Murphy said, Tim was so proud he even called me into the bathroom to show me what he did. Oh boy. That's that's what a friendship's going to. Nobody's that close. Hey, Jimmy. Jimmy, come here and look at this poop I took. Oh my God. I mean, look at that. Yeah. What do you think of that, Jimmy? Yeah. That's from your herbs, my friend. Uh, you know, I'm okay without this part of it. Usually it's all over the wall. Anyway, I'm going to get out of here. Look how big that's like a thing. Take care, bud. Thank you. One piece. That's because of you. See you later, man. I'm going to name it. I'm getting in the car. Jimmy. After. Uh, Jim Murphy also said, when Tim would go to the beach, he would be like, I'm going to go to the beach. He would put on suntan lotion on himself and then spend five minutes in one position, move his body a three degrees for another five minutes and then on and on. Wonderful guy. So innocent naive. That guy doesn't sound wonderful. It's just not weird. Yeah. He's like a tanning sundial. Yeah. That kind of thing. Uh, he was a wonderful guy. So innocent and naive with a quirky personality and a witty sense of humor. I know a very few people who I've met in my life to be more honest, kinder or harbor more integrity. I'm fucking Tim Anderson. Yeah. That's no, let's no joke. No, let's tell me. Anderson pitched in the minus for a few years, but his basketball wasn't fast enough for the majors. It was just a ball. It was like three. It's like three miles per hour to slow, which in the majors is like, I'm going to hit a home run off of you every time. The Cubs gave him gave him an ultimatum choose boxing or baseball. So then Anderson chose boxing. Okay. At only four years old, he made his pro boxing debut in June 1983. And over the next two years, he built up a record of 13 and three. Okay. Anderson split with his trainer and moved to California sparring at a local gym called Benny and the Jets. Wow. So not a long term name, I hope. There's not a lot of forethought in that. Hey, you guys, I want to open up a boxing gym that closes in like 13 months. I bet you now it's just in the same place called the Macarena. You know what this name is going to last forever. It's just like a lifelong name, Benny and the Jets. Dude, show me a time when that song ain't great. Show me time. I can't. I can't. Let's box. All right. Here we go. An employee there set up a meeting with Tim and a former local rock concert promoter named Rick Parker. Parker was looking for a way into boxing promotion. And by the end of the dinner, they were in business together. Okay. Rick convinced Anderson to fight at the heavyweight level. And Tim agreed after telling Rick he would need six months to bulk up. Wow. So I don't know what he weighed, but that's never a good sign when a boxing promoter says, hey, let's go for the richest one. Yeah. That's gonna be a rough six months. Fuck. Richard L Parker was born June 4th, 1955 in Springfield, Missouri to a single mother with an older half sister named Diane McVeigh. After moving to Florida at 13, Rick dropped out of school at 16 years old. Good. Always a good decision. He became a pool hustler. Oh, man. It's just the time when that could be a job time. That was a good fucking time when your occupation was you were a fucking pool hustler. Just put that down on the on the application. Yeah. For four years up at hustler pool, but now I want to work. I want to go to work in accounting. I want to go to one of those job sites right now. Just put that pool. Type it's pool hustler. What do you got for me? I can make anything happen. So apprenticeship. He would he would travel around towns in Florida staying two or three days in each town, never returning to a town twice. He would pretend to be drunker than he was and used a pool cue that looked like a house one calling it sneaky Pete. Oh man, I love this guy. Hey, sneaky Pete took another one down. How you doing sneaky? Oh man, you got your own cue. Oh, this is big and then he turns the camera goes sneaky. Pete. One more baby. What are you talking to? I just my my not not the queue. What are you accusing me of? I'm just saying you got fine. All right. You got me. It's a hustle. This is sneaky Pete. All right, look, I was going to take it for all your money. Here take it. Take it all. Sorry. Good. Goodbye. You don't seem drunk. Now let's go home. Sneaky Pete. After living this way for a few years, Parker married and moved to Orlando, Florida. There he met a neighbor making the green in his bathtub. Hmm. I'm sorry. The green. All right. How about a little the green was an all purpose cleaner that was sold door to door, spilled dirt on the carpet and show how great the product works. Rick was in. He started making the green himself selling it as sun station. Oh my God. What this? I missed this time, David. This is so early. Make a bathroom cleaner in your bathtub and then go sell it door to door. So 70s and early 80s. Oh man. Hey, check out sun station. Sun station. I love that he just met a guy who was making the shit in a bathtub. Well, that guy was probably like, Hey, what do you mean? He's like, I'm going to start doing it too. He's like, No, that's my job. Well, you can't just take the green. Yeah. Meet. Son Tastic. Hey, let me show you how I make the green. Yeah. Okay. I'm going to make it too. What are you talking about? What happened to Florida? It used to be so so honorable here. He started making the green himself selling it as a sensation. He would place a small ad in the local paper asking, quote, Do you want to see the world? And using that using that that ad Parker assembled a collection of street kids and drifters to sell sun station door to door. He paid them 10% of commission. Oh, man. 10% in commission. Oh, man. He he's the real sneaky Pete. He went out across all the south. It cost 49 cents to make a bottle and it was sold for $49. What the fuck? Right? Those are some margins. 40. So the kids are getting so everybody's getting fucked except for everybody. Yeah. Rick then left his wife. How does some of the second because you're riding high, baby? You're on the sun. You're on the sun station express. There's only seat. There's only a seat for one. You know what? The sun space station express is going up and there's only room for one man. You're out. Listen, babe, I admit I said I'd be with you forever, but that's before I saw my life through the sun station prism. God dammit. I wish I met the green before I met you. This is the house that's on station built. Well, uh, he had a son with another wife, another sun station, paid her off, took his son and married another woman named Holly. Okay. So that's three. He brought his half sister, Diane, into the business. By the time he was 25 years old, Parker was making $2,500 a day. Oh, from sun station. Oh shit. Yeah. Wow. And wore a 50,000 worth of jewelry. He's like a drug dealer. Oh, wow. He sounds like Dykstra a little. You still like this guy? Uh, I'm not going to, you know, in the way that, yeah. Okay. All right. Like, but I don't like that I like him. I know I shouldn't, but I feel like by the end of this, you're going to like Tim and not so much this guy. Well, that's okay. We all find our heroes. Parker hired a driver and bodyguards. Yeah. I just love that he is. He's probably got a big roll of cash and he's just like the cleaning liquid. He sounds like Steve Martin and the jerk when he invents those glasses. He began promoting rock shows around Florida for Bon Jovi rat and the almond brothers and others. Hey, I'm off board now, baby. Rat. A rat. One day flying back from Las Vegas, Parker met boxing promoter Don King on an airplane. That will not be a good meeting. King promoted the biggest names in boxing at the time, Muhammad Ali, Joe Frazier, George Farman, Larry Helms, Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield. King told Parker to get him into the box to get into the boxing boxing business. The King was like, yeah, to get into the boxing business with a big white heavyweight because that's where the money was. Oh, here we go. Yeah. Here we go. Quote, he was saying, what? Said Don King. I never sat behind beside him on no airplane. I never told him to get into boxing. Why would I do that? Asked if he is certain considering this supposedly was 11 years ago. King laughed. Let me ask you something. Think I would forget meeting someone who looked like he did and call himself Elvis. That's new information. Parker demanded that everyone call him Elvis. Oh my God. He thought he really looked like Elvis. You know, the Elvis said Rob Russon, his former business partner. Not Elvis Costello. This Elvis weighed 344 pounds, wore gold glasses, covered his baldness with a puffy red ponytail wig and sang terribly and played the piano worse. I mean, this guy. Wow. That's a lot of great detail. Made people call him Elvis. Yeah. Oh man. Yeah. He had a limo, a Ferrari, more money than I had ever seen, said Tim Anderson of Rich Parker. A guy with money like that, why wouldn't I trust him? Oh yeah. There we go. That's a good quote. Some good thinking right there. That sums up every place that this story goes. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Oh boy. Why wouldn't I trust a guy with money? He was motivated by money and nothing else. Holy shit, this guy's got money. Who else are you going to trust? Yeah. The guy doesn't have money. What the fuck? Look at this guy. He's rolling in it. Guys who have money are good guys. His name's Elvis. He's got a fake ponytail. This is a wagon I want to hitch to. He's selling cleaners out of bathrooms. This is the guy. He's got a bunch of orphans selling sensation for him. This guy's perfect. In the spring of 1987, Rick arranged Tim's first tableweight fight in Missouri where he got knocked out in round two. They then traveled around with boxer Randall Tex Cobb. Oh dude. He's his manager. Randall Tex Cobb. Anderson's record was five in one within a few months. Cobb had taken a year and a half off from boxing to act in movies. The biker guy in Raising Arizona is probably what he's best known for. The guy who's always on the Oh, he's the best. He had that broken nose so he'd always talk like this. He was looking to get back into boxing now. Cobb's manager got Rick Parker into cocaine. In July of 1987, Tim found Cobb's manager dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. This is just a good group of dudes. This is a good circle. This is a good circle to hang out with. This is a good circle. He's found some solid dudes. Yeah, this is a good circle. Well, one guy's not as solid because there's a hole in his head. Well, besides that, well, the other people are putting holes in their head too just with drugs. I think it's good that you meet a guy who introduces you to cocaine and then blows his head off. That's always a good sign. Anytime you hear that a man is motivated by money and cocaine is introduced and it's the 80s, things are going to be pretty good. It's going to be good. Randall Tex Cobb once told Anderson, quote, I know you can fight because the way you dress, you'd embarrass the Puerto Ricans and the faggots. Oh, righty. So that's Randall Tex Cobb bringing it home, laying down the truth as only he knows how. And this year, a Republican presidential candidate. He's dead. Meanwhile, Parker was still running his cleaning business and he wanted Tim to beat up a kid working for him who was dealing drugs. What? So he's got a kid who is also who's figured out that if he can get into people's houses, he can also sell him some cocaine. He can be like, Hey, you want to buy this cleaning? What about this? This blow? Oh, Jesus. It's actually a really good idea. I mean, it's a really good idea. I'm trying to think. Do you want to try some fantasco? Would you like sensation or some fantasco? Rick thought drug dealing made him look bad. Rick is not really sure if that's true, Rick. Rick, a lot of things are making you look bad, baby. The hair, the hair's not good. The 344 pounds. You're a big guy. You're sweating. There's a lot of jewelry. Also you're trying to be Elvis. $50,000 worth of jewelry. Elvis. Uh, so Tim refused to punch the kid in front of a bunch of Rick's people in a parking lot. Instead, one of Rick's bodyguards put a gun in the kid's mouth and then punched it into his mouth, breaking his teeth. Oh, Jesus Christ. I feel about Rick now. Not, I'm off. He lost me in Bon Jovi, but this is, this is, this is worse. Rick was also moving up as a man. Parker was also moving up as a manager. By October 1987, he was promoting George Foreman in the beginning of his comeback, setting up three fights for him that ended in knockouts. Then a fight was set up between Anderson and Foreman. Okay. Tim Anderson gained his greatest fame as a fighter on David Letterman's show. All right. He actually didn't get on the show, but he became David's favorite fighter after Tim knocked down the referee in an ESPN bout against Roy Saffold in Las Vegas. Okay. Once I read that, I picture it in my mind. I remember that was a famous video of a dude. Does, he intentionally knocks the referee out. Here's what happened. So Saffold bit Tim and hit him after the bell. Tim went back to hit him and the ref stepped in the way and then Tim hit the ref. Oh shit. So it was like an accidental. Yeah. Okay. Right. Okay. And Letterman showed it four or five times a night. You know how you would just get something and play it? So that was what he did. Yeah. Yeah. When the referee finally got up, he took two points away from Tim and that cost him the fight. Geez. Lies, cheats, hoards and a couple of nice guys. Tim said, when asked about the fighting world during a buildup to the form and fight, Anderson is 29. It's a funny game to be in. At this point, he didn't really know his trainer and he didn't like his trainer's style and he was having a hard time finding a sparring partner. Things are probably good for a fight. Things that a manager would usually help you out. Yeah. Yeah. Things you need when training. Well, that's what a manager would help you find a sparring partner. Yeah. For sure. Yeah. And a trainer that you would know. Yes. Tim was not your typical fighter. He was a degree, he holds a degree in kine, ziology. Kine, ziology. Kine, ziology. Right. Okay. It's the muscle, right. It's the muscle movement. Kine, ziology from the Fort Lauderdale Medical Center, which earned him the nickname Doc Anderson. Okay. For a while, he put his degree to use at his Chicago health club offering expertise in physical therapy, giving massages and running a sun tanning bed. The latter moved Steve Sweet Kid Cooper, one of Anderson's 15 knockout victims, to remark, the guy makes his living given people sun tans. I want to rematch. Oh, well, that's some shit talk. Before Tim could get in the ring and hit someone, he had to mentally psych himself up for three days. Three days of staring at walls and finding some hate in him, said Rick Parker's sister. Many times I wondered why Tim was even in boxing. He always had the same answer. He liked working out. Well, there's other ways. What about working out? Yeah. Hey, what about just working out? No. Pretend there's a fight. So the fight happened between Foreman and Anderson. Each time Anderson was knocked down, he popped back up. It got to where fans began applauding his courage after each knockdown. And the referee actually congratulated Anderson after he stopped the fight. Hey, man, that was amazing. He must have gotten knocked down like 25 times. Just congratulations. That was fantastic. You are really bad. It's amazing how you keep getting hit, falling down and getting back up. Like you lost that fight seven times. You lost that fight so many times. It's crazy. At some point people are like, no, stop. But Foreman was impressed enough to hire Anderson as his sparring partner. Okay. Anderson has stood with this man. So he referred to this night as the turning point in my career. That's not what you want to walk away from a fight with. The other guy like beating the fuck out of me so much, he's going to pay me to do it from now on. Well, this meant that suddenly he was in demand. To get the shit kicked out of him. Overnight he was wanted by any heavyweight who was making a comeback. Larry Holmes called Jim Young, anyone who wanted to be someone again wanted to fight Tim Anderson. Oh, boy. He's on the Has been trail. Yeah. I mean, that is like, I want to fight this guy. Yeah. Yeah. I want to start with an easy one. Rick got cut out of the Rick Parker got cut out of the out of the Foreman comeback by other managers, trainers and investors who were involved. I'm sure he took it. Well, he ended up suing and received a settlement of $150,000. Okay. Which he now wore around his neck. So now Rick was obviously rolling cash from the cleaning business and boxing. Partner Rob Russin says Parker began spending as much as $2,500 a night on cocaine parties. Oh, wow. That's a lot of money. That's how you lose 50 grand on your body. Real easy. I'd be doing an ounce of coke a night and he'd be trying to hang with me. Remember Paul Sonny Barch, a self described quote punch drunk boxer and co-conspirator of Parkers. Jesus. It was the good life. Girls, money, drugs. Everyone had a good time. Everyone partied. What about Anderson? Barch said he was a flake. He never hung with us. I know he didn't do drugs. I don't know if he even drank a beer all the time I saw him. He was kind of off by himself. Totally weird guy. I love how he's the fucking weirdo. I love that the boxer because boxers have to take such good care of themselves. And I love that there's a boxer is doing what boxers supposed to do. This guy's like, look at this fucking freak. Look at the square. Look at this guy. He's all like, I make a living off my body. It's not a fight unless I'm already bleeding from my nose. When I get in the ring, kid. That is how you want to enter the ring. Coked out of your tits with a fucking bloody nose. What? Would you fight in the locker room? No, I'm just not allowed to blow. No, you're having a good, good, good time. It's the good life. In 1990, before a fight in Fort Myers, a just so noted drugs visit was scheduled at a local high school with some boxers. Anderson opened Parker's limousine door as it rolled up and several people were inside doing cocaine. Anderson said, quote, I slammed the door. I was pretty upset. We went in and talked to the kids, but our relationship was pretty much severed right then. After the fight, I told Rick I was leaving and I wanted my money. But Parker had him on a contract and a guaranteed and guaranteed him 10,000 to go to South Africa and fight Pierre Cortzer. Okay. Parker said he'd fly a train over for Anderson, but no one showed. Leaving him training in an empty gym with punching bags. Wow. While he waited in the dressing room before the fight, two cops with rifles came in and asked Tim if, quote, he's going to lose the fight tonight. Tim answered, I wouldn't bet on it. Then one of the cops hit him in the face with the butt of his rifle and said, yes, you are. Anderson entered the already, the ring already having a bloody nose. Oh, what? There's a Jesus Christ from getting hit in the head. Not the good life. Not the good life. Not the blow. No. The bad one. Yeah, the bad rifle. He lost in round two, partially because he'd already been hit with a fucking rifle butt. He got his $10,000, flew home and moved to Fort Lauderdale to get away from Parker. He met a woman named Gail, married her and divorced her within a year and a half. Relationships seem to be the other issue. Yeah, especially in Florida. Anderson figured he was owed about $148,000 by Parker between the weekly salary and the 50% split of his boxing purses. He's just not getting any of his money. Is that how much of a, that's a crazy horseshit split. Oh, yeah. But that's what they get, isn't it? That's what the boxing promoters are the worst. Yeah. Think of pimps. Yeah. Anderson had also begun writing a book about his experience in boxing called, quote, Liars, Cheats and Horses. Parker claimed he wasn't paying up until, Parker said he wasn't paying up until he was assured his name wasn't slandered in the book. If it was, he told Anderson, quote, I'll kill your sister. Wow. What? That's fucked. I mean, you don't get to be the king of shitty cleaning liquid unless you kill some people. Man, it's gotta be weird when you're like the guy who invented, um, sensation threatened to kill my sister over boxing money because of his drug problem. And then he said he could clean it up. Yeah. They'll never catch me. I've got the green, bitch. I've got the green. Even even a brown carpet covered in blood comes out white. You know what I'm saying? That's what he's that's what his demos are doing at the door. Now you can see here, I've got some blood that's actually turned that rust color, which means it's been there for a while. Just a couple of sprays right here, a sensation. Look at that coming right out. Right out. Real human blood and bits of skull. This is a little, this is a chunky stain. His one, uh, one time partner Rob Russen called Parker, quote, a monster. Don Hazleton, the former executive director of the state athletic commission that regulates professional boxing in Florida said Parker was quote, everything bad about boxing come to life. Wow. You look up scum in the dictionary and there Rick is says Steve Benson, who co-promoted a fight with Parker in September, 1992. Benson says he was never paid by Parker when he began telling others this trouble began. Parker would call two, three, four times a night, late at night when I was in bed saying your life is over. We're going to get your wife. You better be looking over your shoulder. Hazel, I would never think a guy in cocaine would do this. No, this doesn't sound like cocaine behavior. Hazel was threatened by Parker after the same fight too. Quote legally, physically, every way he could think of the fight was between two Parker clients, Randall Tex Cobb and Sonny Barch. Sonny Barch, who was the party monster, Cobb had backed out of fighting Tim Doc Anderson at the last minute and fought Barch instead. Quote, Tex saw what shape Anderson was in and got scared. Barch says of the fight that lasted 70 seconds in which he fell down three times. I was never hit. The sellout crowd booed as the fight. That's the Sonny Tex Cobb fight? And Tex just beat the fuck out of Sonny. No, Sonny didn't get it. Sonny was never hit. Sonny was never hit, but he fell down three times and then the fight ended. Oh, Jesus. It was a 70 second fight, literally what we were talking about. Which one guy never got hit and fell down three times and then ended the fight. The sellout crowd booed? That's like the naked gun. Sellout crowd booed as the fight ended and the ring announcer said, the ring announcer said, well, after that, I think we have to cleanse ourselves. Oh, Jesus. The ring announcer. After that, I think we need a cleansing. That was pathetic. How about a real fight? Let's get refund. Let's get ready to refund. On August 17th. Let's see those receipts and ticket stumps for your money back. On August 17th, 1989, Mark Gastonow. Do you know Mark Gastonow? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. While holding hands with his girlfriend, Brigitte Nielsen. Is it Brigitte or Brigitte? I think it's Brigitte. The Brigitte. She seems like she wants to call herself. No, it might be Brigitte. Brigitte. Isn't it? Whatever. Okay. Well, we'll call her Brigitte. Sure. Brigitte Nielsen at a press conference said that he wanted to become a professional boxer. Okay. Quote, I know my potential, my capabilities, my aggression. The former New York Jets defensive end set. Gastonow, 32 years old, had retired in the middle of the football season after nearly 10 years with the Jets. He set an NFL career record of 107 and a half quarterback sacks. Quote, I love crushing quarterbacks, but deep down I've always wanted to become a fighter. Wow. In People magazine, Brigitte said, I think it's Brigitte. Brigitte, I think it is Brigitte. We'll go with Brigitte. Brigitte said, Mark and I are going to get married. The exact date hasn't been set yet, but this year. The news was a surprise to Mark's wife, Lisa. We're still not close to a divorce, she said. Not unless he comes up with a settlement tomorrow. Wow. Just genius. Parker convinced Rick Gastonow to sign a contract with his company and called up George Forman's new manager to tell him that a fight between the two could make them both 5 million. Forman's manager laughed and told Parker that when Gastonow is at 12 and 0, they'll talk. Parker took this as a guarantee. Oh, Jesus. He began handpicking opponents for Gastonow. The first was Derek Dukes, a pro wrestler who was paid 600. Quote, all we were looking for was somebody that had laid down, Bart said. He knew how to fall with a pulled punch. He had one of those pin me and pay me attitudes. Dukes wasn't even allowed to throw a punch. The first one Mark threw close to him, he was just to make it look good and fall down. That fight lasted 18 seconds. If you're going to be like a fake, if you're going to do a fake fight, you can't go for five minutes. I know, I don't understand. What the fuck is with this 18 second shit? Because it's actually hard to run around like that. 18 seconds? You're a box. I mean, people are going to look at you as a competent fighter when you step in the ring at minimal. The fight was 18 seconds, which included the 10 that were needed for the ref to count them out. One plus with boxing glove taps, we're probably talking about a three second actual combat. Three seconds of actual combat. April 8th, 1992, Gaston defeated Lawn Librigan with a first round punch that cracked three bones and Librigan skull and ended his boxing career. During he said, quote, I think for my own well being, I'm going to have to give up boxing. The referee stopped about at two minutes, 38 seconds of the first round. Parker set up eight more easy fights for Gaston. Who reached a record of nine and oh, he never made it past the second round. Okay. Then Parker called Tim. They talked once in two years. Tim knew something was up. Parker said, I'm going to make up the 148,000 I owe you. When Tim asked how Parker said, I want you to fight Mark Gaston. Anderson said, he told me I'd be paid 500,000 and all I have to do is lose in the first or second round and he goes, we'll make it look good. He knocks you out. You come to the interview, talk about how you were a sparring partner of George Foreman's and you tell everyone Mark Gaston hits as hard as George. That puts a little spin back on the last guy who said that he was retired from boxing because he got hit by some. He got hit so hard. Did he embellish his bone breaks? We don't know if his bones were even broken. He probably was fine. How is he getting so much money? How would you get this? Okay, well Gaston is a famous person. So his fights were already on TV once he started one too? Really? Oh yeah. I remember his fights on TV. He was one of the worst boxers I've ever seen in my life. But he would win the fights. His fights were, yeah. I'll put up, there's a great one. I'll put it up on the Facebook page and I'll link to it from the Twitter. And if our web page is up, it might be up on then, right? Oh, it's close. Yeah, I mean I think we just have to talk to you. Anderson says, let me think about it. Knowing it was Saturday and the fight was scheduled for Tuesday. So Parker assumed the fight was on. On Tuesday morning, Parker and Gaston now came to Anderson's room. Rick says, we want to set up the fight and go over what's going to happen. Tim looked right at Mark and said, Mark, I'm going to hurt you. Oh yes. And Rick says, what? And Tim says, I'm going to hurt him. That's awesome. And their mouths were wide open said Tim. And Anderson knew it was too late for them to get someone else. In the second round of the fight, Gaston asked Tim, when are you going home? Meaning when was he going to take a dive? Every Marty Salmon said talk of the fix was rife before the match. I told them if there was anything suspicious, they weren't getting paid. Anderson then went out and beat the crap out of Gaston now. It was no contest. Man against boy. Some of the fight commentary. I'm going to hurt you. What? I'm going to hurt him. Some of the fight commentary from the night, which was broadcast nationally on USA Tuesday night fights. Oh wow. I saw this fight in June 1992. Quote, this is from the fight commentary. Gaston, Gaston opponents have been care, been picked carefully. His toughest fights may have been with Bridget Nielsen. He looks more like a strong man than a professional boxer. I think he's made a mistake by going on national television. Oh wow. The crowd starts to boo Gaston now who hasn't thrown a punch. This is the longest gas now has gone three rounds. He has to be wondering now, how am I going to get out of this one with a win? He is finding out exactly where he was in the first nine fights. He has stepped up to another level, but you know what level Tim Doc Anderson is at. You can see all the panic faces in Gaston now's corner. They could see their dreams, hopes and big dollars going down the drain here tonight. We were concerned with Anderson having stage fright tonight. He's now dancing and toying with the big lumbering Gaston now. Gaston now constantly turns away like he's afraid to get hit. Jesus. After losing the fight, what was the plan when he got to George Foreman? I don't know. I think they just wanted to get there and then they didn't care. They just wanted a bunch of money. They just wanted to watch a man die. I mean he probably wasn't making a million or something playing football. So this was a chance to make half that if he would just get hit and fall down. After losing the fight in the fifth round Gaston says this is also a really shitty boxing promoter. Like he's the worst. Right. He's the only man who could get seriously hurt. Like this guy could get fucking killed on the ring because he doesn't know what he's doing. Well especially when he goes up against George Foreman after getting a bunch of actors. They never even came close to teaching him how to box. They just didn't care. Don't worry about boxing Mark. We got that. After losing the fight in the fifth round Mark Gaston says in the ringside interview, I think I'm probably going to get a new girlfriend. He's not with Bridget Nielsen anymore. You know you can't have family problems and go into the ring. Eventually I wasn't there. I need a more stable home life. I can't spend the nights arguing. I'll continue to fight and actually show up every show everybody that I'm a true winner. And this was a total night off and there's no way in the world I should have got beat. Oh God. I never saw my brother so mad said Rick's sister. Oh man he must have been fucking pissed. Rick was absolutely obsessed with getting that win against Tim back. He kept saying if he got that win he'd be back on track to a big payday. He didn't pay attention to his other fighters. All he cared about was working on this rematch. September 5th. A rematch of Mark and Anderson. Oh boy. So it's gone down a little bit from the Mark form. Yeah well I should say so. September 5th 1992. Mark Gaston won his 11th fight against Rick Horde without throwing a punch. He put his full weight forward onto Horde who was wearing a knee brace and that was the fight. Oh Jesus. I just lean on. A knee brace. I like how these fights are so thick that they're just not even boxing. They're not even hitting you. They're just falling down. That's what I'm saying. It's just people falling down. There's no boxing. Some illusion would be nice. No illusion at all. Yeah. It's just a guy falling down and then going there. A guy with a bad knee. Like what do you when you see that. It'll come in bad knee Rick for nothing. Yeah. All right. Welcome to the ring. One crotch. Going down. Going down Tony fighting Mark Gaston now. Yeah. The other thing about a lot of these guys is that they have they have different names in different states. So they'll in one state they'll be like 30 and 60 and their names Mark Wilson and then they go to another state and they're like they're like five and 40 and their name is Jeff Davis. Why because the boxing commissions will make a state if you're clearly a canned tomato that's just getting hit and falling down. They'll they'll make you stop boxing. So then you just change your name. So they've just got all these different names. Ales is in different states and they're just making like $2,000 a night to get to go down. Interesting life. Most of them make it look good. Like these guys. Not these guys. These guys weren't even making it look good. Like well most of the guys could actually beat up Mark Gaston. Like those guys are actually know how to they know how to box. Yeah. They're going to go down but you can't have a guy who's going to win the fight who has no idea how to box beat up a guy who does know how to box and is supposed to go down. You can't have that. That's why he gets worse guys. Right. What a fucking disaster. On December 3rd Parker arranged a rematch with Tim Anderson in Gasinau's home state of Oklahoma. Oklahoma had no boxing commission. Parker told you know what that means. Well that means that it's zero rules. Yeah there's no rules. There's no rules. No one's watching over shit. Yeah. Parker told told Anderson that he needed him to knock Gasinau out because their contract said that when gas Gaston out lost two fights Parker no longer had to pay his expenses but still retained the right to act as a promoter. So that's the what a what a 180. Tim Jim Murphy and Tim's father agreed that this was a setup but Doc Anderson decided to fight anyway. Parker promised him money up front for expenses a week in a good hotel three thousand for the fight and Tim's trainer would be flown in. Tim promised Jim Murphy he wouldn't eat or drink around Parker. Okay. Is that a good sign. Not a good sign that you're involved with a decent gentleman if you're not supposed to eat or drink around him. Yeah. No that's not that's a normal thing to be happening in the 1990s. To need a food tester. Of course Anderson's trainer didn't go to Oklahoma City shocking strangers worked in his corner that night and water they and the water they gave him tasted sweet. But I'll get him a little sugar in his water. When he asked about it he was told they had put a little sugar in it to give him a little additional energy. He remembers drinking water from cups handed to him while waiting 45 minutes for Gaston out of here in the ring. Oh my God. So Gaston is delaying and he's just sitting there drinking the sweet water. Oh dear. What. Well this he needs his tester. This water is going to. In the third round I started to feel nauseous. I was seeing colors and it seemed like there were more people in the ring and more people around the ring. He kept saying he was lightheaded and dizzy and was going to throw up said Houston Perkins the referee. I thought maybe Tim had eaten something bad. Gaston now hadn't even hit him and it probably wouldn't have mattered if he had. Gaston now had no punching power. Gaston now couldn't beat me in a fight. This was the third gas and our fight I'd referee and let's just say you knew in every one of them who was expected to win. Anderson's legs were wobbly. His mind was numb. Gaston caught him with a right hook above the ear in the sixth round and Anderson went down. He got up but his mind was gone and the fight was lost. Well. I went back to the locker room and started throwing up in this big garbage can Anderson said. The first thing I knew I was on the cement floor of the locker room and being woken up by this janitor. It was three in the morning. Everyone had left me on the floor. What? What? That's insane. It's just a good it's just the 90s. This is what happened. Nobody. Is this the 1790s? No, it's the 90s. How does anyone Oklahoma? You know how all the all these people love there's a nobody that has no fucking rules. Well, this is the kind of shit that happens. You think somebody would check on him. When anyone stuck in the hospital, the doctor told Tim Anderson he had been drugged. Oh, Jesus. Later that morning Anderson went to Parker's hotel room to collect his money and the two had it out in front of Parker's entourage. Tim accused Parker of drugging him. Parker said, Mark was in great shape. He just beat you. I love that. Tim responded. I did the best. Look, I'm not going to beat George Foreman and I'm not going to beat Larry Holmes, but I'm never going to lose to Marc Gasineau in a fair fight. Never. You screwed me. Anderson received 2000 for the fight and 1000 from the first Gastonite fight. It's not a lot of money. It's shit. It's not sensation cash. A preliminary report on Tim's blood showed the presence of a slew of drugs, including arsenic and LSD. Holy shit. But a final analysis was never completed. For the next two years, Anderson suffered from debilitating dizziness and nausea. He was never the same, said Jim Murphy. He couldn't get out of bed. And when he did, he would bump into things. He had vertigo. Doctors couldn't find anything. For six months, he was bedridden. There's no question he was drugged and it killed his life. Period. He couldn't work out. He didn't box at all. The guy that I knew was dead from that point on. I felt like I was on a carnival ride. I was so dizzy all the time, said Anderson. His final boxing record was 27, 16 and one with 13 chaos. Wow. December 19th, 1992. Mark Gaston, I was arrested on a warrant stemming from Arizona drug charges. He's arrested for picking up a package of 200 amphetamines at the Phoenix airport. Authorities said he failed to attend a counseling session, submit to your intense pay fees and respond to letters from the program. He was released from jail after posing posting a $5,000 bail. Parker's problems began in August 1993 when Paul Sonny Barch told the Florida Athletic Commission that he was paid 2000 to lose a fight in about it's in 1992. I don't know much about Sonny, but you can't trust him. His whole vibe is that you should not be letting you should not. No, no, no. Yeah, I would not have faith in this guy. To lose a fight against Tex Cobb. Tim. Tim Anderson also claimed he was offered 500,000 by Parker to throw the fight against Gaston now. Russon told the commission he was present when wrestler slash boxer Derek Dukes was instructed by Parker to intentionally lose a fight in Gaston now's pro debut in Florida. Fixing fights is a misdemeanor termed running a sham. The penalty is up to 60 days in jail and a $500 fine. So they take it really serious. Yeah, yeah, they really, yeah, they really throw the book at you. Yeah, they really get you. The federal law also prohibits prohibits fight fixing and is punishable by a fine of up to 10,000 and five years in prison. Okay. And in October 4th 1993 issue of Sports Illustrated, an article about Rick Parker and Tex Cobb was published titled The Fix Was In. The article was a first person account written by Sonny Barge. Oh boy. What? Barge is just such a reason. He sounds like a rat. Barge claimed he and Tex Cobb met before the match to discuss how it end and that they all took cocaine after the fight. I just threw that in. I mean, why not? We're assuming you were on cocaine signing. In the middle of your fight story. Yeah. Your fight fixing story. Oh, we also did blow. Yeah. In April 1994, during a segment about fixed fights on 60 minutes, Parker said, quote, these people that are making these accusations about fight fixing are a bunch of low life scumball pieces of crap. Okay. Yeah. Liars, thieves, drug addicts or people that are motivated for greed or their own personal desire for gain. They want to harm me. They want to destroy me for their own selfish reasons. I love that he's saying your own personal desire for gain. That's what everybody. Mm hmm. He might be lying. Kevin Barge, Sonny's brother and Derek Dukes also told 60 minutes there fights against gas and over fix gas now declined to talk to the show. This is not very telling. In September of 1994. It's just under a year later. Bartric handed everything he wrote in the article. Oh Jesus Christ. This guy is a fuck. This guy sounds like he is cocaine. These swings. I mean, who the fuck you can't do that. The corks out motherfucker. You open the bottle over the past several months. I have abstained over the past three months or so. I have abstained from chronic drug abuse and now realize the damage. My false statements has caused Parker and others. Bart said in a court affidavit. So in Seattle, he had sold his story to the. Two sports illustrator for 15,000. So some Parker had some. Barge ran out of fucking blow and then Parker gave him more blow. Yeah, that's all. I'm sorry. I'll be afraid again. I'm sorry. It's like the fucking shitty movie that where the girl is second cock to do something. Then she tells on someone and then five seasons later, she's back in her second cock for cocaine. Sorry, what movie is this? It's all of them. All movies are about cock sucking and cocaine. What? I just maybe we're. Have you seen. You're just watching porn, right? I've not seen born free. I've not seen born free, but I don't believe that's part of it. About lions and cocks. I'm sorry about lions and cocks. It's sucking cocaine. Sucking cocaine. Okay, back to the story. I think the stories what's happening right now. Parking cop then sued sports illustrator for 120 million and 150 million, respectively. Cobb said the story ruined his boxing and acting career, which is apparently worth $150 million. At the same time, Anderson was still suffering. We had done every test imaginable. Jim Murphy said MRIs, vertigo tests, CAT scans, motion x-rays, acupuncture with pulse monitoring, biofeedback equipment, everything. One doctor gave him vertigo exercises that helped for a few months and he was able to get out of bed and then finally get out and even work a bit. Anderson consulted with a lawyer about Swink Parker and had started working on his book again. Then he was coming out of a convenience store when two guys in hoods hit him in the back of the head with a baseball bat. They told me to forget everything I knew about Parker, forget the lawsuit, forget the book. This doesn't sound random. What do you mean? I don't like it. Total random guys who recognized him. I don't think you're right. I don't think you're right. From the book circuit. From the book writing circuit. We love when people are conceiving books. We're pretty hip on that. Knock it off. Now you stop with your book. You stop with your book thinking. Parker began phoning him too, Murphy says. Tim got me and my girlfriend on the line wants to hear. Basically, he told Tim if you didn't want to hear accusations about a book, he'd say, you know what I've done before. You know, I know where your sister and your family live. You know me, Tim. You know what I can do. Okay. It's cool. He's he's threatening a girl in a wheelchair. I'm not sure when caller ID came into existence. But if it's around now, you get it for this reason. You get it. I'm just like, I'm not going to take that one. It's going to be about murdering my sister. Anderson didn't stop. Once a stranger on the street showed him an address in Fort Myers. It was his sister's address. He suggested Anderson forget about Parker. Anderson said a doctor advised him that the only way to get proper treatment was to find out what he'd been drugged with. So Tim called Parker. No way. And said his book was nearly completed. He just needed an interview with Parker and he would pay $45,000 for it. That sounds like he's Parkering Parker. It's a good plan. The 45,000 is a little bit over the top. If I was Parker, I wouldn't have believed it. But apparently this is everyone's an idiot time. Oh, you got 45K. You want to talk to me? 45 grand. Nothing seems shady about this. Nothing's weird here. I mean, I've tried to have a killer budget times. I mean, I get $45,000. I'll tell you what, you threatened to kill a guy's sister. Look what happens. He gives you 45K. He gives you 45 grand to talk to him. Fuckin' America. Before going to meet Parker, Anderson wrote to various people in his life. I am dying. Liver and kidneys poisoned. I am giving up my life to kill Rick. He is responsible for the drugs and the poison I was given. Please forgive me. I was dying. There will be money for my book. There is peace. I want to be cremated. Forgive me and be good to each other. He brought a gun for protection, he said. This makes me think about if a boxer's funeral should be like the announcer. In this coffin, laying in, 280 pounds, six foot one inches tall. Drugged out of his mind. Killed because he was given sugar, our snick before a fight with an XNFL player. Ladies and gentlemen. Give it up. A doctor. Rick's sister and his 14 year old son who Rick had not seen in two years drove to, drove Tim Anderson to meet Rick at a motel. I'm going to repeat that. Okay. Rick's sister and his 14 year old son who Rick had not seen in two years drove Tim Anderson to meet Rick at the motel. It's what we would call a pretty interesting moment. Couple of things. Your sister's driving me. The kid you haven't seen in a couple of years is going to be there. You're going to do a little, Hey, how you doing? What's up? How you, how you going? I think your sister and your kid are going to leave. Then we're going to talk about the book. Don't get caught up in the minutiae of my sister and my son. I haven't seen for two years. I'm going to kill Elvis. That's the headline. But they're driving Tim Anderson. Yeah. They're driving the other guy. Yeah. Four of them met and reminisced a while until Diane and Rick's son left the room. Hey, how you doing? Good. You're my kid. Hey, what's up? Now, Anderson and Parker were alone. Anderson pulled out a tape recorder telling Parker to list every drug he slipped him the night of the rematch. Parker took the tape recorder and knocked it into the next room and broke it against the wall. Anderson then pulled out his gun. Parker began talking. I don't know what they put in it. A little this, a little that. I don't remember Parker said. Anderson dropped the gun to his side and said Parker then began screaming at him. The last thing he remembers. Oh, shit. The last thing he remembers is not good. Parker. It never is a good thing. That's a terrible start. It's never a good thing. The last thing he remembers. That means we're missing valuable information of something fucked up. The last thing he remembers, he woke up on a pot of gold. Never been the case. The last thing he remembers, he made some sound investments online. The last thing he remembers is Parker saying for that stunt you just pulled with the gun, your sister Aaron is dead. The next thing I know, I'm standing in the kitchen and Rick is laying there. I saw he was shot in the groin. The stomach and the knee. Holy shit. I counted eight places. There were actually more. So I obviously wasn't in control of anything. I went in the bedroom and put the gun in my mouth and said, forgive me, Lord, but the gun jammed. What the fuck? He ran outside and down the stairs. I took the gun, threw it on the ground and bam, it went off. He said he went into the bushes beside the building and tried to kill himself again. Five times I pulled the trigger. He says nothing actually happened. Finally I heard this voice saying, my son, it's not your time. He went to the front desk and told the clerk what happened. Hey, clerk, what happened? Hey, what's up? I'm in room 24. First of all, I need a new key. Second of all, I need a new key. There's a guy dead in there. Do you guys have Fanta in a machine? Sir, why are you covered in blood? That's from the guy I killed. Excuse me? The gun won't work anymore, though. So I need, if you have a gun, I need a gun in a taper quarter and Fanta. And then there's a dead guy. I guess rags. What do you tell the man at the front desk? Hey, this is what happened. Hey, I'm in 319. I just shot a guy in his dick. Anderson calmly waited for the police. I shot him eight times. Anderson told police, the detective, the police detective, listen, I don't want a trial. I don't want any attorneys. I'll tell you everything that happened. I want the death penalty as soon as possible. I think he's basically in shock that it actually happened, said Parker's sister. The first words out of his mouth were, Diane, I'm so sorry. I didn't mean for it to happen like this. Yeah. Well, I'll tell you, when you said you're going to go interview him and kill him, it seems like you did sort of. You know, you're going to. That's a bad sign. Yeah. Anderson was removed from suicide watch at the Orange County jail and he was held without bond on a first degree murder charge. He went on trial for first degree murder. He pleaded not guilty by self-defense. Anderson said he shot Parker in self-defense after the promoter made numerous threats to harm Anderson's wheelchair bound sister. He told deputies he kept shooting Parker to put him out of his misery. Quote, he said, oh my God, you've got to help me. The way he was crying, I was feeling sorry for him. Oh my God. So I shot him again. He kept saying, oh, I'm sorry. Oh God. It hurts. So I kept shooting him to make it not hurt. The first shot was probably the dick shot. The dick shot had him in the first one. Right? Well, yeah, because if you're going to do that one. Yep. And you yell right in the twinkie. Yeah. Yeah. You go right in the twinkie. Here's some sugar. Yeah. Just going to shoot a load. His attorneys called several former boxing associates of Parkers to the stand. So Parker died. The witnesses. Yeah. Okay. He didn't make it. Okay. Just want to be clear. The witnesses described Parker as a gun toting troublemaker who traveled with bodyguards threatening and intimidating people. The referee of the bout in which Anderson was poisoned, Houston Perkins, took the witness stand and supported Anderson's claims. Wow. Perkins said on the stand, Anderson appeared dizzy. An injury that wasn't caused by gas and those blows. Quote, there weren't any. Mark Gassano probably couldn't knock me out. So I still talking. He keeps saying it. He keeps. He can't not say like that. He couldn't knock me out. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what this trials about. Mark that big football fuck couldn't knock me out. Yes. Tiny Houston Perkins cast and I was just like in the actual courtroom just sitting there like what the fuck is this dude? I didn't do anything. Why the shrapnel? Holy shit. Perkins are not going to fight you. You're a fucking little guy. I'm sorry. Hit me. I'm sorry. What was the question for the last goddamn time? The jury delivered it for six hours. Anderson was found guilty of first degree murder, which carried an automatic sentence of life in prison without parole. Anderson had shitty public defenders. The ringside doctor was not called to testify. Anderson's attacks with the bat and the threats were declared inadmissible. Threats against his sister were declared inadmissible. The defense did not call a psychiatrist or a medical doctor or a psychiatrist to describe his physical condition or suicidal mindset or how the drugs would have affected him. They never called the arresting officer who took Anderson's suicidal statement. Two jurors publicly expressed outrage over the facts that they were never told that mandatory sentencing guidelines would keep Anderson in prison forever. If they had known that, they said their verdict would have been completely different. Anderson works as a sweeper in prison. He reads lots of books, writes short stories and looks forward to visits from his family and friends. Physically he's much better. Besides doing scores of pushups and pullups, Anderson does a regular regimen of 6,000 stomach crunches, 1,500 at a time, four times a day. What? 15? That's your whole day. That's insane. Right? That's your whole day. That's your whole day. You got no other day. There's lunch, sleep and crunches. It's a crunch day. Yeah. What are you doing today? Crunch and lunch. Whatever's going to happen will happen, said Anderson. I'm just riding the storm out one day at a time. You know, it's not really a storm. The storm's over. Diane, Rick Parker's sister visits Tim regularly and professes her love for him. That's interesting. Right? Yeah. Over the years, there were so many people who might have wanted Rick dead. He wasn't a very nice person and he took advantage of a lot of people. I'm not surprised someone killed him. I'm just surprised that Tim did it. Fair. Fair. He's a superstar. Yeah. From a jail-ass interview, quote, you know I've been thinking about when I played baseball. I could have stayed with that. Seriously, if his fastball was three miles an hour faster. I know. None of this happens. Holy shit. Just a little more fucking mustard. I don't know how far I could have gone at it, but I liked the training of boxing, so I started taking boxing more seriously. He pauses. He just likes reflecting in the final seconds of his phone allotment. I should have stayed with baseball. Learn a curve, right? Learn a break. Yeah. October 22, 1998, quote, I'm happy the right thing was done. I'll finish the program. Ex jet Mark Gastonow after pleading guilty to misdemeanor assault for hitting his wife. So he can't throw up. And being sentenced to three years probation and counseling. He was given the option of attending a church sponsored program for first time offenders in an interview with ESPN.com. God gave Mark Gastonow his son Jesus. And you know what? He died on the cross and I'm forgiven for everything. What? I this is dynamite. I'm sorry. I don't mean to cut you off. Start again. It's already the less the missed lesson is so great. Okay. Mark Gastonow is son Jesus. First of all, it's very, it's very one on one. It's very one on one. Yeah, it's not like that. It's a little narcissistic. Excuse me, Mark Gastonow. You know what? Take Jesus. Thank you, Lord. This is my boy. For you, you fight cheating and drug taking wife beating fuck. This is for you. This Jesus fell out. Yeah, kill him. Do whatever. That's why Jesus was put on earth. So you can do drugs, cheat it, fight it, punch your wife and then go in the book of he gets it Gaston 0 310. God gave Mark Gastonow his son also the third person. Jesus doesn't want you to talk in the third person. Oh my God. He's name dropping Jesus and himself. Between me, 107 and a half. Between me, 107 half sacks and Jesus dying on the cross. This is a great world. You know what I mean? I'll tell you what, if you had Jesus, Jesus as the other outside linebacker, right? You watch that pressure from the left side. Man, it's gonna be like double the sack. Yeah. Double the sack. How great is that to imagine like Jesus coming down. He just decides to play football and he's pretty good. It's pretty good. He's not great. He's not great. He plays a little bit plays for five different teams. I mean, he gets up a lot. That's the thing I'll say about him. And I'll tell you what, he's a solid. He's a locker room coach. That's what he's become at this point. Never hurt. Okay, sorry. God gave Matt Mark Gaston water into Gatorade on the sideline. Thanks Jesus. That's it. That you know, Will Anderson is listening and he had just thought of that joke and then you said it. Wait, what? Will Anderson is listening to this podcast right now. Oh yeah. His brain went to his brain went to he turned water. And he just said it out loud and then you said it totally and he nodded. There have been multiple times where we've done live ones with Will where like there's something beat me to something by just like a fraction. God gave Mark Gaston. I was like Jesus. And you know what? He died on the cross and I'm forgiven for everything. Everything is good. Is there more to that quote? I could not go on if it wasn't for that. I'm so thankful for Jesus Christ in my life that he is my savior and he saved my life because of the fact that I would beat myself up. I'd beat myself up every day for beating up my wife. I beat myself up for beating up her. It's a fucking vicious circle. The referee just pops in from the back and he's like you couldn't beat yourself up. The fuck is your problem? Just say it. Perkins guy. I could beat you up but you could you're so shitty as a fighter you couldn't even beat yourself up. You could need yourself to take a dive. When I was in the NFL I was doing steroids. I had been checked okay two times. So he's been caught two times. And the third time it was going to be in the papers. So you know what? So that's. I didn't want to be embarrassed. That's why you quit football halfway through the season. What a great guy. Great guy. Well I know it's just a matter of time until my cheating goes public. So I'm out. Hey everybody. I cheated at everything I've ever done. I punched my wife in the face. Did a lot of meth. And I'm cool. I'm good with it because the guy died on a cross a couple thousand years ago. And I believe I condescended Jesus. I believe a little bit. A little bit of condescending. Me and Jesus hang out in a truck. I'll be honest. Jesus is a little lame. A little lame. A little lame. A little straight line. A little self-important. Unlike that Mark Gaston now. Who's me? On July 11th 1999 a jury awarded former heavyweight boxer Tex Cobb 8.5 million in compensatory damages and 2.2 million in punitive damages in a libel suit he filed against Sports Illustrated Magazine. Wow. Over an article claiming he participated in a fixed fight in 1992. Thanks Sonny. On July 31st 2002 a federal appeals court overruled a 10.7 million libel verdict against Sports Illustrated. The US Court of Appeals in Cincinnati ruled that the magazine and its reporters did not act with actual malice when they published that former professional boxer and character actor Randall Tex Cobb was involved with fixing a match and that he used cocaine after the match. The jury's verdict cannot stand without significantly infringing on the breathing space that the Supreme Court has carved out for the freedom of speech. The three judge appellate panel wrote. You can write to Timothy Anderson in prison DC number 538979 cross city correctional Institute five male 568 northeast 255 255 Street cross city Florida 32628 and he apparently responds. Wow that's crazy. Fucking eight. You can also write to the you know the Florida parole and say this guy shouldn't be in jail for life because he shouldn't be in jail for life. No. No he shouldn't be. He should he he's funny defense. I was fucking threatening to kill his sister over and over. The guy basically he thought at that point killed him had drugged him. Honestly you don't even need any of that evidence just be like this dude wanted to be called Elvis. I think like it's pretty open and shut. This man actively wanted the name of a guy who just took pills and died on a toilet. Your honor in defense I would like to point out that the victim had a red ponytail wig. And we thought we overturned the original verdict. Thank you are free to go. Thank you. All I wanted to do was work out when you get I just want to work out when you call an expert to the stand. They're like do you swear to tell the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth so help you mark gas to know. Well let me tell you a little story about Jesus that my cast and I the first line of that quote he talks in third person about Jesus you can almost hear like the priest who talked to him's eyes roll just go he doesn't give fuck well Jesus and my friends so now I can hit my wife. No thank you that's not what we've been saying you know Mark Gaston now is that's not Mark Gaston I can hit his wife because Jesus and him play basketball basically it's not what we've been. Thank you. So the reason I found out about the story was from that long. Yeah that was long. OK. Over an hour. That was crazy though was from the I was at a party a couple years ago. That's a fight. It was out of we're watching a fight and there was a gentleman there named Ian Morris who is a co creator of the in betweeners which is a really huge huge show and had two huge movies. The second one has the greatest shit scene in the history of anything. I can't even describe you how great is it a boxing match. It's no it's it's the in betweeners and it's the shit scene in the movies. It just it's so it goes so beyond it's like it starts out as shit scene and then it just keeps going and there's music and it just turns into this epic sweeping thing and you cannot believe like it's just it's like if you're going to do it go big. Yeah exactly if you're going to do it and it's just they went from like it was supposed to be a one day shoot and then it was like a week or something like it just turned like it's really crazy to watch. So Ian Morris was like have you heard about this story. I think it's called what's the name of the book the locus. Well fuck I got it right here. Where's the last page. So this is a book. You know I might have taken it off. Yeah I did take it off. I'll put up the I'll put up the name of the book but this is based on a book. Some guy wrote a book about this and Ian and his and I think his writing partner were about to buy the rights to it and Matt Damon swooped in and got it at the last minute. But he thought it was totally on the radar and nobody knew about it and then Damon. So Damon is apparently I don't know what's happened with it but his idea was to make a movie out of this because this is a great fucking movie. The characters just reading it are Tim Tim Anderson's like the nicest guy in the world. It just gets caught up in this fucking nightmare and Rick Parker is a fucking monster and Elvis too. And then the justice is like wow fuck what is there's no it's just this tragic fucking story. Yeah we should write him we should send him the podcast. Well he can you put a link on a letter. The person who did the research Christine did. She does a lot of the research. You heard me mention your name before she wrote him a letter telling him about that there was gonna be a podcast about this. Oh really. So I don't know if we can send him. I don't know how we can do it. Just put a link you copy the link from your computer and put it on the letter. They can't go on computers. I think you just touch his finger to it and then it'll do his leg. His eye screens. Oh fuck. All right so that's the Tim Doc Anderson story which is just. Crazy. Fucking fantastic. Hopefully he gets out of prison at some point but I don't know the Florida laws and nightmare. I've already dropped my money. The whole mandatory sentencing thing. Judges. I'm sorry I'm sorry occasionally a judge makes a wrong fucking call but it's the judge's call and that's let the guys involved with a fucking case make a fucking sentence. It's so it's so juvenile to do it that way. Just let adults handle it and moron step aside. Yeah. Yeah let the judges. I mean there you go with American policy. Anyway that's the address also if you want to write him who knows. Yeah. All right well that was that was a dollop. All right. No bless this podcast Saturday May 23rd 2015. Okay. Should we start doing that. No let's just end. Let's date stamp it. Let's just end this. But let's date stamp it. Date stamp it. Let's start date stamping. There's no point. And then at the end we'll say something like. We'll say on the no. Hold on. We're done. We're off stage. I'm wrapping this. I'm doing a new wrap up. Hey everybody stay safe out there. What the fuck. No I'm not going to allow that. Don't don't drink arsenic or LSD. Okay great. I'm glad we stuck around for this. That's the that's our new ending. It's not the new ending. Stay safe. Don't drink arsenic or LSD. Terrible. Disagree. You think that works now but it only works for this one. All right. Don't say it. If you're going to spit it out. All right.