 Gardener was born on the Isle of Gardener. Okay, so there's, that's not just Kowinki, right? Well, I mean, it's probably not officially called the Isle of Gardener, but I have a feeling like some English assholes just floated up on a boat and said, let's name this after us. Okay. And the Indians are probably like, oh, we have a name for this. We've, we've, we named it. For centuries. T-Slan. Yeah. Yeah, it's ours. It's ours now. I was formerly known as the Isle of Right. All right. Which I'm also betting not an American Indian. Yeah, no. Chief Right. A guy named Right ruled that. Yeah. And I was like, this is mine. I'm leaving. Like, no, no, this is called Bird Feather. Bird, no. No, no, no. This is Right Island. It's ours. It's mine now. Anyway, scout them. Thank you. Hurt them. It's in Long Island Sound. Okay. Yep. She was the second child of engineer and master of works of fortification for the Prince of Orange, Lion Gardener. What? The Prince of Orange? I mean, this guy's name, the master, the engineer and master of works of fortification. Right. So he helps fortify castles and. Right. Forks. Sure. And for the Prince of Orange, I thought the, I feel like the Prince of Orange is a Netherland gentleman. The Prince of, why just, are you going off of soccer? No, I know that there's, I know that there isn't, I believe there's a famous orange royalty line. The Prince of Orange. Okay. So, so. And then, but then his name is Lion's. That makes me think that he's English because the English love lions. Yeah. L-Y-O-N. L-I-O-N. Oh, really? He went with like animal lion. F***ing full lion. All right. All right. It's Tiger Jenkins. Hello. All right, buddy. I'm Zebra Jones. I'll roll it, roll it back a little bit. Uh, Elizabeth Gardner was the first English child born on the Isle of Gardener. What? Okay. All right. I have a hard time with this one. Although he retained ownership of the island in 1653, Lion built, I could have used his last name, but I can't. No. I'm Lion. No. Lion built a home and moved on to Long Island with the Connecticut settlers at East Hampton where they were voted in. Voted in? The record showed that the original 35 settlers of East Hampton and purchasers of the town had come from Lynn, Massachusetts and nearby towns. Those who came were accepted into the town by vote and some were refused based on their unacceptable principles and laziness. Wow. Okay. So it's kind of like a club. Yeah. It sounds like a dickhead club. You know, there's a bouncer. The little dickhead club. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's like a club. Exactly. Where dickheads go. The settlers were Puritans and established congressional churches. These people were not fond of titles and in a period of 30 years, only five persons had the title of Mr. What? The others prefer being called Goodman and Goodwife or simply Goody. Oh, well, please. If we could start giving me the Goody business, that'd be great. I love that they didn't like. I'm Goody Reynolds. I look, you know what? I don't want a title, but call me Goodman. Yes. I hate titles. Mr. So Funny. Goody Smith. When she was 15, Elizabeth married 24-year-old Arthur Howell. Nothing wrong there. Nothing wrong there. Nothing wrong there. Back then, Howell did business. 24 and 15. Yeah. He was Southampton's leading citizen at that time. She quickly gave birth to a daughter, Elizabeth, because if you're 24 and you're married a 15-year-old, you're going to fuck her all the time. Yeah. Well, and also, you know, she only has about 30 good years of birth and left, so you want to strike while the iron's hot. Not even that. Yeah. 15. 15 at the most, but even then, back then, I'm sure that the... Well, she wouldn't, she's probably dead by far. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. You crank out a couple of kids back then, you're gone. On the fourth day of February, 1658, Samuel Parsons came to the Howell house and found Elizabeth sitting by the fire. She looked well, but she said she had a headache and thought she had caught a cold by not wearing an under-waste coat. Yeah, well, we always say, don't forget your mittens and under-waste coats. And going out into the frost. You know, throwing a couple more more waistcoats. Yeah. Hey, goodie, you forgot your waistcoat. My bottom is cold. Arthur Howell was not home, so Parsons stayed to watch Elizabeth. All right, I'm assuming he's a doctor. I actually didn't look it up, but a dude stopping in on a lady who's 15 and then kicking with her. Yeah. That's a weird thing to happen in Puritan times, I'm just saying. Yeah, but he also... Yeah, but she's also married a 24 year old. I mean, yeah, I just think they were a little weird about shit like that. Are you just hanging in the house with a 15 year old bride? That's cool. Yeah. Samuel left briefly to speak with someone. When he returned, he found Elizabeth in a much worse condition. Oh boy. She had a bound cloth around her head and was in a lot of pain. When Arthur Howell returned, Elizabeth told him, love, I am very ill in the head and fear, I shall have the fever. Okay. Two things here. First of all, she says, I shall have the fever. And secondly, if you have a quote, straight up quote from someone from 1641, some bad shit went down. Well, I assume bad shit was going to go down. The fever. But if you have a quote from 1641, I mean, come on. Yeah, that's fair. But she refused to leave the fire and go to bed. An hour passed and she grew much worse and finally asked to be put to bed. She screamed, Lord have mercy upon me, friends, pray for me. What? Yeah. Lord have mercy upon my friend. So what's good? She's just going bad shit? Well, yeah, she's got the fever. What the fuck do you mean she's got the sound? So far this feels like a preview for a movie called The Fever. It's going to be good. It's a good movie? Stay tuned for The Fever. All right. Samuel Parsons then gave her the baby to nurse. A good call. I mean, he's a doctor. Father of the Year. Good call. It's just what doctors do. You know what? You're about to die. Put this shit on your tongue. Well, she's got the fever. Give her the baby. Give her the put the baby on her. Goodie. Let the baby suck some of her fluids. Goodie, here's the baby. Will you spit in its mouth, Goodie? Elizabeth said, ah, my poor child. Oh boy. No, I'm doing Irish. Why am I doing Irish? That's fine. I think I speak for everybody when I say I love what you're doing. My poor child. It pities me more for thee than for myself. If I be ill, too, be sure thou will be ill, too. She knew the baby was getting it. I couldn't even pay attention to the words. It's just the tone was. She knew the baby's going to get it. She's like, if I'm ill, you're going to get this shit, too. She then nursed the baby. Nursed. Oh boy. And sang a song. Oh boy, sang a song. Yeah. You got to crank out some. Sing a song. Okay. Sing the song. So she's had to crank out a little religious song. Hit me with the P song. What you did? Brank out some religious words in the form of a song. Are you going, can we hear her sing it? I don't know what it was that we don't have that quote. And then she shrieked several times and became delirious. What if, man, talk about Needham WebMD. You know how I just think there's a different cultural thing. I think that, you know how when you see like an Arab funeral and they're doing that yelling thing, whatever, it's just a cultural relay of releasing grief. Yeah. It's crazy, but it's actually probably better than what we do, which is like, yeah. We're all got to bury the feelings along with the body. I think that in this time when they got sick, they just fucking screamed. I think it's a thing. And that thing should stop. I'm okay with that stopping. She cried and yelled, a witch, a witch. Now you are come to torture me because I spoke two to three words against you. Oh, I knew this all sounded familiar. Okay, right. It's not familiar at all. This is an unheard one. This is. Yeah. You've never heard of this one. Okay. Elizabeth father was summoned and by the time he arrived, Elizabeth was striking the bed covers with her hand and crying about the witch. She said she could see an ugly black thing at the foot crouched at the foot of the bed and her mother was summoned. When Elizabeth saw her mother, she put out her hand and cried, Oh mother, I am bewitched. And then both women cried. Oh Jesus. What? I mean, this is not good. It's a good story. You know, it's not to do with your accent. Your accent voice is perfect. Thank you. Everybody loves it. It seems like it's completely in the wrong country. What? No, on the contrary, it's taking me there. This was obviously very bad news. Her mother, Mary told Elizabeth she was not bewitched, but must have just had bad dreams. Okay. She said sternly, you are not bewitched. You have had bad dreams. You just had a bad meal. Bad dream. In the face. Bad dream. Bad dream. Not bewitched. Okay. But Elizabeth was like, No, I am bewitched and I can see figures. I'm sorry. Sorry. What was she like? Elizabeth was like, No, I am. Thank you. And I can see figures in the corner of the room and not to foot to the bed. I know what it is. I just watched. I just watched the last episode of Downton Abbey and I'm stuck on the head. I saw it. It's not a problem. I'm stuck on it. It's good. Over in that corner is a dark thing, she said. Yeah. Over in the corner is a dark thing. Okay. So there's a dark thing in the corner. Dark thing in the corner. And over in the other corner, it is goodie garlic. Is that about to be a boxing match? In this corner, we have a dark thing. Then there's the thing at the bottom of the bed. Mary told her daughter she must not repeat such things to a living soul even to her husband. Oh, Jesus. She's like, Don't fucking go down this road. Yeah. Don't go down this road. What are you, 15? Stop it. Stop it. This condition worsened for several days. On Saturday morning, her husband, Goody Simmons and Goody Birdsill were around her bed when Elizabeth requested that they bring Joshua garlic and his wife so that she could tear Goody garlic to pieces. Goody garlic? Goody garlic, G-A-R-L-I-C-K. Goody garlic. This is a person? Elizabeth garlic, yeah. Goody garlic. It sounds like a great product. She married a guy named Joshua garlic. She married. She married into the garlic name. She married into the garlics. I'm glad we got rid of garlic as someone's last name. It's a bad, it's a shitty fucking last name. Garlic. Okay, so she. Elizabeth then said that when her husband worked at garlics threshing, she had gone to bring her husband, she went down there to bring her husband home. And Joshua garlic had laughed and jeered at her and made her cry. What an asshole. Right? Yeah. Nothing and jeering at something. Yeah. This is not Goody behavior. So, the garlic laughed and cried at her and said, you're a pretty one. What? What the fuck? It doesn't seem that mean. No. It's saying you're a pretty one. That's not, that's. It does not seem harsh. He sounds like a construction worker. You're a pretty one. Yeah. That's a lady doing that. A lady to another lady. That's a lady. That's a lady. That's a compliment. Now there's women listening. That is not a compliment. Yeah. Elizabeth then said, Goody garlic. Goody garlic is a double-tongued woman because I spoke two or three words to her. She's now come to torment me. Did you not see her last night stand by the bedside ready to pull me in pieces? She prickled me with pins. She prickled me with pins. She prickled me with pins. Holy shit. Yeah. She fucking. There's a lot to love. She tripled that shit. But so, she is having a vision of a living woman at the base of her bed putting pins in her. She's saying that a living woman is coming in fucking with her shit while she's in bed. Okay. Did you not see her? I did not see her personally. No. I thought she should have looked around more. Yeah. No. Well, that's fine. But later that evening, Elizabeth was so delirious that she recognized no one. Later that night, Arthur Howell and Samuel Parsons were in the room keeping watch when they heard a scratching sound as if something scratched on the other side of the bed. Okay. They quickly lit a candle. This is the days when it's not just about a light switch. You got to grab that. Yeah. It's a whole thing. It's a whole thing. So, there's no quick turning on the light. Yeah. The fastest you can turn on the light is like two minutes. So, they lit the candle and they searched the bed, but they could find nothing. Just goody Simmons and Elizabeth fast asleep with their hands by their sides. I want to back up. What? I want to back up here. So, a woman is deathly ill. Yeah. And she has the fever. She's got the fever. She's got the fever. You're using her breast milk on a child. So, you give her a baby and then you have another lady sleeping in bed with her. Yeah. Yep. I can't believe these fevers would just go around the town. Yeah. Well, that's a... Imagine catching visions. Well, what? But who was... But goody Simmons, how about no. I'm not going to sleep in the bed. I got my own bed. Yeah. You absolutely should have the... You should think to yourself, well, this person's going crazy. Says it's a fever. I'm probably going to just... I'm going to lay low and not come over here that much anymore. I'm not going to lay low. I don't need to be around... I don't need to be in bed with you. I don't need to be here. The man did not understand what could have made the noise. Just before daybreak on Sunday, Arthur and William Russell were keeping watch. I love that they're keeping watch. Yeah. Also pretty useless. Two of them too. When they heard a mournful noise come from behind the fireplace. Oh, dear. A mournful noise. Yeah. I guess that's... It's an upset ghost. Oh, no. Come on now. Oh, boo boo boo boo. Oh, boo boo boo boo. I like turning on the lights. Boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo. Oh boo oh boo Okay, the sound was like a noise of a great stone being thrown down among a heap of stones and kept a great rumbling You know what that sounds like I have a fireplace that sounds like a log falling over to fireplace Also, I'm not the first one to have a fireplace Yeah, but one would assume if your only way to get heat in the house to have a fireplace that you would hear logs going But then how do you also label that mournful? Well, it sounded like someone was being sad. It's the sad log. You know why cuz Elizabeth Howell then died. Oh, Jesus I feel like they Embellished yeah a little bit and retrospect the log was sad Looking back the deathbed accusations of Elizabeth Howell Elizabeth Howell were enough to bring Charges of suspicion of witchcraft against goodie garlic. What the fuck did she do? I mean, yeah, she just gave a compliment also known as Elizabeth garlic in addition to Elizabeth dead deathbed accusation Goodie Davis the wife of a folk Davis had previously wife of fuck Davis folk FOL I Found it spelled two different ways. I found it. I found it spade spelled f o l k e and I also found it spelled f o u k e So I went with folk Fulk that yeah, fuck I'm I'm out Fuck better fuck Davis. How are you? Well? Hello? It's actually folk This is my friend fuck Davis. Hey, how are you? It's actually this is like you and Gary. Yeah, that's true It's folk not fuck At live shows people just chatting fuck fuck So goodie Davis the wife of folk Davis had previously accused good goodie garlic of witchcraft. Oh, okay the Davis family moved from the Isle of Lion to sorry the Isle of Right or the Isle of Gardener to East Hampton years before the garlics did when goodie Davis heard that the garlics were gonna settle in East Hampton She started the alerts goodie Davis told Good wife hand that the town would be sorry for it Because they have to vote a man. Yeah Many had bad things before them at the island such as my own child said goodie Davis goodie gardeners ox and the nigger child that was taken away in a strange manner and Also a man and a sow that was fat and lusty and went pig to pig to pig to pig and then died So they burned the pigs tail and presently goodie garlic Well, what what what just happened? I think the pig was both lazy and like to fuck. Yeah, no So he was fucking pig to pig to pig to pig. Yeah, no, and then he died and then and then they go out the sow The sow and then they burned then they burned his tail That's what you do if a cow and that is and this blood is on goodie garlic sands. Well, she's around okay I gotta say I like how that's how rolled out though, right? Right fucking fucking Mudflat that all I had Making bacon and then out And they were like it was a witch and the pig was like, oh man It's smoking man. Give me more of that which then man You bring all your witches man. Yeah, I love Give me the curses People would say why did your why does your pig sound so cool? Yeah, what's why is your pig wearing sunglasses? Now I shouldn't mention that Elizabeth died just four years before Good Goodman folk himself had his own trouble with the law and he's Hampton. Okay Now it's turning into a crime. Sure. No, we're seeing yeah in June 1654 Folk Davis his youngest son John Davis Daniel Fairfield and John Han Jr. Were hauled before town leaders in East Hampton and charged with staging a masturbation contest Whoa, hello Whoa, what oh my god What this is Insane, um, okay, so gentlemen's contest. Okay. Do you know what were the rules of the master? It is not why did we stop masturbation contest? I don't know what the contest was We don't know if they were caught in the middle of the contest or if someone was bragging about winning it afterwards It might just be like that's probably just the best way if you like to watch guys jerk off to get to see guys jerk off Well, that's my master. Hey, you guys want to you guys want to have a little challenge. It's 20 dollars Yeah, we'll get my son in on this. Yep. Oh, yeah, and that teenager John Han Jr. Oh, yeah Oh god, bring hand junior a hand junior a hand. Why'd they call you hand? Hey, hand John Han Jr. Was the only teenager of the group The contest ended up causing a lot of outrage in East Hampton. I wonder why The punishments were light Okay, folk Davis as the older and wisest received the harshest penalty Okay, well John Han Jr. Was not punished at all right. They said because of his age Yeah, that's fair. They tried him as a minor Also John Han Jr. May have gotten off with no punishment because sorry Townsmen John Han Jr. Might have gotten off. I've got enough. Okay. All right Just no punishment because the three townsmen who muted out the punishments names were John Mulford Thomas Baker and John Hand. Well, oh, hmm. That's interesting. I got off So to speak the hand got off Quote after our after extended examination and serious debate and consultation with their saybrook neighbors the townsmen So everybody got in on everybody got in on what they should do Everyone talked at length about the masturbators like gone girl, but with masturbate. It is very much like that. Yeah So not deeming the offense worthy of loss of life or limb What so they were like should we cut off a hand or an arm or just kill them and people like I don't this is just masturbating They were just whacking it They determined that folk Davis should be placed in the pillar and receive corporal punishment. All right, so he did the stocks right sure John Davis and Daniel Far Fairfield were publicly whipped And and that was done and witnessed by three townsmen and then John hand jr. Got to walk. Okay. Anyway back to witchcraft So for the rest of February and part of March depositions were gathered by the three townsmen and all those present for Elizabeth illness The illness and death gave statements about what she said and the noises that were heard. Mm-hmm. Yeah, the dismayed log Yeah Yeah, I'm trapped in a log Goodwill bird cell testified about the mysterious death good life bird cell is a really terrible name It's a horrible name good wife bird cell. It's not none of it. I would have gone with goody goody bird Good yeah, and bird what the fuck bird cell garlic. She liked good wife better She testified about the mysterious death of goody Davis's child while on the island. Okay Goody bird cell. Okay. This is this is in this is in old-fashioned writing because I went back and pulled this out of the fucking Declared it she was in the house of goody Simmons when goody Davis sayeth yet She had dressed her child in clean linen at the island and goody garlic came in and said Oh, how pretty the child doth look and so soon as she had spoken goody garlic said the child is not well for it Growneth and goody Davis said her heart did rise and Goody Davis said when she took the child from goody garlic She said she saw death in the face of it and a child sickened presently upon it and lay five days and nights And never opened the eyes nor cried till it died So so a lady that's why you know let people hold your baby So this lady came in and said oh the kid looks sick. Yeah, and so they're saying she killed it Yeah, more more over goody Davis said that goody garlic was a naughty woman. Oh Legally speaking she's naughty in the legal sense. Mm-hmm. You get my wink wink. Yeah Yeah, good wife Alice hand John the master Bader's mother John and wife of the master Bader Good wife master Bader gave testimony that goody Davis had told her similar things about goody garlic Goody hand or good wife hand said she had been surprised Good wife. I know it's all fucked up. Oh my god. It's so hard to say Good wife hand said that she had been surprised that after making these charges goody Davis had been friendly with goody garlic When she came to town But goody Davis explained to good wife hand that it is as good to please the devil as it is to anger him I mean that I'm not saying she's a crazy fucking witch and then she comes down. She's like Girlfriends were the same back then I know it's exactly same. She's the biggest bitch in the world And my best friend there you are miss you and my best friend Plus these are all women are all like fucking 16 right yeah, well there I mean a lot of yeah It's very real housewives ish. Yeah, the real housewives of the 1600s Goodman Richard Stratton testified that goody Davis told him her child had died strangely on the island and that She thought it was bewitched and knew no one on the island who could have done it except goody garlic I mean, there's a I don't want to take goody garlic side Mm-hmm, but so far I'm not hearing a lot of Relevant information. I don't know if that's true. I think that is good wife and Edwards testified about her daughter Elizabeth Stratton She said goody garlic sent Elizabeth a request for some breast milk Which like a Facebook? Elizabeth Kaffir Shortly afterward Elizabeth's breast milk went away and her child sickened so you see the connection sure yeah, no, it's very clear Goody Davis came while the child was sick and told him that goody garlic had once sent for breast milk and presently her Child died and goody Stratton's did and her child felt sick and fell sick and died So she's saying that yeah, I repeated that but she's saying that this happened before yeah when I was on the island Yeah, this is the double Double milk tigger yeah No, well first of all her name is catchy second of all I There's no evidence watch goody Davis keeps saying what happened. Yeah, but that's not evidence I'm not sure that's what we call hearsay or hearsay if it's interesting that all of these things all come down to one person talking shit Yeah, it's all goody. That's the evidence But that was how evidence work back then really was like but yeah, no he turned me into a goat for a month The the the fucking trial was literally people coming in and going you know goody Davis told me yeah You imagine sitting there watching watching your fate as you're like well, this is not good because people are saying What about the fact that goody Davis is a fucking asshole? Yeah Goody Davis's statements were contradicted by others on the island doesn't matter goodman Jeremiah Vale and good wife Catherine Vale testified that goody Davis spoke as if her child was bewitched but Goody Davis had taken in an Indian child to nurse for a little money and then starved her own child Wait, so that's a bomb shell This really is just people talking shit This is exactly like the real housewife This is just like it's completely an irrelevant person becomes relevant and then other people aim to make her as irrelevant as possible It's 100% people talking shit. It's just talking shit This is like if this is like if there were trials for your life in middle school That's what this wow. Yeah, or high school totally. It's a truck. It's even high school a rumor could have you killed Yeah, that's oh my god. That's what it is Jesus. Yeah, it's really fucked up. There was a rumor I dealt drugs So did you I didn't I smoked them. I did in high school. Yeah, I did that terrible upbringing Yeah, well, at least you're sipping tea like a man now Goody bird cell and goody Edward also declared that they have found a pin in Elizabeth's mouth when she died. Oh This has goody garlic written all over it Just point out that there are a couple ladies saying she or they were poking around her mouth Yeah, a pin in her mouth who wouldn't poke it on a dead man That might have been the whole cause of the whole thing. Well, I know I don't know why if someone dies You fucking go poke around on their dirty sick dead mouth. I mean if you were to die here, I definitely look in your mouth I hope so Goody Edwards said shortly before she had tried to feed a Elizabeth some oil and and sugar and did not see anything at Elizabeth's mouth Okay, so a good meal of oil and sugar. I mean really amazing how I mean, I'm guessing they didn't have a lot of food Yeah, but still a really go with this. There's a better option. They're really better option. They really go with this You want some dirt soup? What do you feel like do you want some do you want some oil and sugar? Do you want some vinegar and lemon or I'm gonna pour some dust and hair into your mouth here have some hair shavings All right, here's some here take these nail clippings that we've been boiling and then drink this water Here's some honey and some leaves. Here's some here. Let me wring out this rag and then this will be what you'll drink and And hopefully you get better On March 15th Joshua garlic Goodman garlic. Yeah brought a suit for defamation on the behalf of his wife against How can you possibly they drop saying like he dropped that shit against goodie Davis who is fucking talking smack all over town And and I was based on her gone. Yeah, man. I mean, man. So then how could like then you're now he's saying she's a liar But your legal system is then just basically set up as not great. It's not great. It's all hearsay Then the town had no idea what the fuck to do So Thomas Baker and John Han went to Hartford and put East Hampton under the jurisdiction of Connecticut colony They took Elizabeth garlic with them and delivered her to stand trial for witchcraft So there's a trial for which so after Joshua stands up. It goes this all come from one lady. She's a fucking liar They're like, I was taking her a bigger court. You know, I don't know what to do. You've got a good point We should take this can down the street. Yeah, it's a huge can kicking The court of ma's magistrates at Hartford took up the case against Elizabeth Garrick on September 5th 1658 She was charged with Causing the sickness of infants and the death of cattle the torments of prickling pain and the blasts of atmosphere by droughts and Unseasonable frosts on growing corn There's more but I just want to stop well that is it feels like they it feels like that's a tough one It's a tough one to beat it feels like they open the investigation quite a bit. Yes, and Yeah, really they really did some due diligence. Well, I don't know my crops were awful frosted last year She walked by and my corn was thirsty. Well, she's she's a bitch and she will pay for what she did to you Okay, thank you And and for not having the fear of God before oh, this is a quote and for not having the fear of God before thine eyes Though hast entertain familiarity with Satan and since the year 1650 half done works Above the course of nature to the loss of lives of several persons and in particular the wife of Arthur Howell for which According to the laws of God and the established law of this Commonwealth Deserves to die so that was what she was charged with that's just a charge. Am I am I am I am I crazy to? She'd Has she done anything? No Okay, just wanted to make sure that I know she's done. I feel I feel bad for her No, she's done nothing. Okay. I just want to make sure that at the end of this we weren't gonna find out She like poisons milk or all that we know is that her is that she masturbation happening in her family That's all we're sure. Well, that is quite the skeleton You don't want to be even related to somebody who spearheaded the masturbation contest The case was tried before a jury of 13 men The jury found evidence the evidence insufficient to prove guilt. Okay, but it did find Grounds for suspicion what does that is that means that this chick over here's been saying shit Okay, and it seems like it might be something okay, but there's no proof Well, see the thing is you're in the position where we know that already right where do you land on it? We are saying that we agree that this seems weird and that there's nothing that can prove anything But it's weird This and that's our so she's not guilty for it was sort of we've reached a verdict. It's weird We find the defendant weird to be totally honest So so you know there's that Joshua garlic was then forced to post a bond of 30 pounds for his wife and his wife's good behavior So he'd have fucking put down that's a lot of money back. Yeah, that's a good amount of scratch I'll load a scratch the garlics were told that they must appear before the local court in East Hampton in September or October If they were to continue to live on Long Island I mean what so now they had to go back to the place where they kicked it down the road Yeah, and be like hey hey, can we end this nightmare? If they moved to the mainland they were required to appear at the quarter court at Hartford on the first Thursday in September Joshua garlic also had to pay the cost of transporting his wife from East Hampton to Hartford and for keeping her in Hartford It actually sounds like lawsuits today a lot They were the garlics were sent home with a letter from the court to the town of East Hampton The letter stated quote it is desired and expected of this court that you carry on peaceably and neighborly without Just a fence to Joshua garlic and his wife and they should do like to you That was it they said everyone just get along They said they said there is no proof that she's a witch but there's a lot of really weird shit here and you guys all have to be friends It's the worst court ever this should be a lot order episode Bum bum Bum bum you have to be friends Bum bum I stay But according to G gene a logical right records Folk Davis had a history of rubbing his neighbors the wrong way His name appears in at least three different legal and property disputes In the 1660s folk and his wife goodie Davis were chased out of East Hampton Allegedly for quote molesting men and quote practicing witchcraft Oh my Jesus Christ What was dude yeah, no I get that he was a dude walking around molesting people and performing witchcraft But how does none of this ever come up when it matters? Well, I don't know I don't know But anyway, she then I mean it's literally like What did they take to get a law degree? It's you just have to have hands I don't know I don't know I don't know I don't know I don't know It's you just have to have hands It's really a fucked up time I mean Did you ask a question? This is just when just going outside was really difficult Just to ask a question The environment because the people would be like which Oh he's buggering me Oh Jesus There is a rumor that back in these days and I could never find any proof of it I think it just came from a writer who said that this was true But that if you were put in the stocks at night people would just go out and fuck you They would pull down your pants and just bang you Oh my god So I guess the whipping is what you want Yep, take the whipping Take the whipping because at least you can You'll just be healing your upper back all night That's the stocks man, you're just gonna get banged all night by a bunch of different dudes Well they should change the name from stocks to bang cuffs I think bang cuffs is more appropriate Falk eventually died in Jamaica, New York around 1687 No one knows what happened to his wife Because clearly women didn't matter then because they're in the legal standing It's all like his wife, what about her name? Boy this honestly sounds like the premise for like a film Like if That could be a great comedy Yeah, that was just like It's fucking ridiculous It's like I mean It starts with the masturbation contest That's the opening scene Dude, it's called masturbation contest A masturbation contest Every, in every 15 minutes when they're in the crutch all someone just goes This is about the masturbation contest isn't it? Yeah, yeah I mean that's the problem here Fuck witchcraft A man to hell the masturbation contest I agree that there should have been a more severe punishment Especially since they pulled teenage John Hanne Jr. into it Let's get rid of a jerkage Let's get rid of it It's funny you would bring that up because we're about to do a dollop About boxing Oh, well I mean if only these were in the opposite order what a tie-in I know I'll put that up That'll already been up you've already heard that when you hear this But I heard it backwards