 I Think it's about And then we just leave the birds for a second People say this is funny not Gary Gira save okay someone or something is tickling Is it for fun and this is not gonna come particularly quite good. Yeah You are Queen Fakie of made-up town all hail Queen shit of Liesville a bunch of religious virgins go to Mingle and do what? All right Okay, so now you're this is gonna be an awkward date show What? I'm not taking a bit. No, I was gonna do it. Okay. Do it sexy September 19th 1947 I hate this Nancy Perry Ling was born in San Francisco, California to an upper-class family Nancy Perry Ling Perry Ling. Yeah, okay She moved in attended high school in Santa Rosa, North of San Francisco Nancy Nancy Nancy Nancy Nancy I just got a bunch of shit for not for not pronouncing. Oh, yeah. Well, you're hot. Can I say what hot right now? I am hot. Can I say something why I don't pronounce things correctly? uh, I did a lot of drugs in high school and it totally affected how I My vocabulary and how I pronounce words. I just want people to know I also did a lot of drugs in high school and Other years. Yeah outside of high school. Yeah, that would actually recently. Yeah, that yeah, you did actually That's my big it that's the worst thing about drugs for me was the part of my brain when I went. Yeah But now and now at least that rage part is glowing and just pulsing I got I just just some asshole wrote something on facebook and link just don't link me to your fucking shit I don't care what you think he was complimenting. Yeah, but it was calling us idiots. It was yeah There was a little pimp hand on it. Um, so I wish he would stop listening whoever that guy is And just don't listen to the podcast anymore. Uh, Walter Burton Oh, jeez Um, yeah, why not? I mean amazing. Why not? Yeah Okay, so Nancy Perry What I'm laying she's a cheerleader and she uh in uh, junior high school and uh, and high school She supported berry gold water in 1964 who didn't uh, he was big with the cheerleaders huge conservative for those of you You don't know who that is big with the cheerleaders Her opinion of berry gold water was based on the politics of her father a middle class furniture dealer in Insulated santa rosa. She was 17 She then attended Richard Nixon's alma mater wittier college sure But wittier college bummed her out and she switched to berkeley and majored in english Okay, cool. That's a different path. That's weird for a conservative. Yeah, you go to berkeley in english You're taking a different road. Yeah, you're smoking weed. You are smoking a lot of weed. Definitely smoking weed and you walk around naked a lot Yeah, uh Nancy was a tiny woman 98 pounds barely five feet. She was warm and introspective avoiding groups of people Her closest friend was an old high school classmate. Gradually, Nancy grew out of her santa rosa roots She met a black piano player gilbert parry when he was working for a state employment office So if she married him she'd be Nancy parry parry Nancy parry Nancy parry Lynn parry Hey, it's me and plp Give me an in But that's a big fuck you to your dad if you're if your dad's a white conservative from santa rosa You very a black piano player. That's like I'm out of my dad move right there. Yeah, that's a good one Gilbert parry was regarded as a as a composer of significant talent But had yet to be discovered or even find a full-time gig and their marriage was a stormy one They'd break up and get back together and break up and get back together and over and over Nancy slowly but easily became a street person What slowly but easily this isn't this this isn't those years when you would just be like I'm gonna live in the park man Man, that's you can still find those people on hate ashberry. They're still just like, you know, I'm gonna live here man It's hate ashberry where in front of this store like that's you're gonna hate it This is a hippie man. I'll sleep outside. I would like like for me It would just be the only downside to that move is you know, well, it's the cable. It's the showering. It's the roof Yeah, it's the bathroom glasses the income Cables chairs and your stuff and outside of that. That's a move I could make right. Yeah If you had nothing it didn't care about anything. It's the perfect place to live. Yes So I think that's where she's at. Okay Her politics were vaguely left at that point, but she Didn't really have us, you know solid grasp on anything It was like she had a feeling for politics and even an anger over politics, but she didn't really have any politics A friend said she liked freedom of the street. She liked hitchhiking and she liked appearing as if She had no past at all. She was living to be an immediate self a person who happened just now I hate everything about that last sentence. I can't even tell you how much it is hard and I'm very like hippie But it's very hard to be like I mean something has for like yeah, what is the point of life other than forming your character and your substance? Hey, I don't know man. I'm living right now So Okay, do you want to go to the police? So, okay. Do you want to go to the movies or? I can't I don't even know what you're talking about because I'm living now. So I don't know what a movie is I don't know what question you ask. Yes, you do. So now you're just like a martian. What are we talking about the movies? Do you want to go right? But I'm living now. Yeah, the movie is in a half hour Do you want to look at my fingers? Yeah, I have a good life. Honestly. Have a good life She was deeply into astrology and paced her life by the planets. Oh god The door closes than the dog barks He's gonna growl at the door So she taught yoga to her friends This one's full of sound effects. Yeah She taught yoga to her friends people who knew her sensed an intellectual loneliness about Nancy She ended up dealing blackjack topless at a tourist joint. What the fuck? What what is happening? She's made she's made some choices. She's done. Is she like she's done everything. Yeah She's just I mean dealing blackjack topless She made a lot of move for this like I'm just like a now person It's also don't go to a topless blackjack place. You're not gonna look concentrated on the cards. You're gonna lose What is what are you doing? True? Yeah Yeah, that is true. I'm trying to think if that's better or worse. I yeah Uh, I'm gonna be I'm gonna be stuck in that that conundrum for a while Keep going Later she sold organic beverages from a sidewalk on the Beverly on the Berkeley campus She started smoking and selling pot Okay, we all call that we'll see if I can pronounce this name Patricia salt sick grew up in Galeta a suburb of Santa Barbara. She was the daughter of an immigrant divorced parents She was an honor student active in a high school student government a member of the 4h who trained guide dogs for the blind She grew up in a comfortable middle-class setting that believed in the success of schooling and making good in life But she began to doubt those ideals really applied to women Patricia Patricia arrived in Berkeley in 1967. She majored in letters and science This was a completely different environment from the suburb of Galeta. This was Berkeley the center of the left militarization movement by 1970 The protest movement was slowing down Berkeley had changed Berkeley became a much darker town the latecomers poured in The embittered Vietnam vets the angry young women the drifters and dropouts who had come from all over because they had heard That Berkeley was the place to get your head together and work for the revolution Huh, all right, Patricia legally changed her name to miss moon M-i-z m-o-o-n that's like miss universe. Mm-hmm except I'm sorry, honey. What do we call you now miss moon? My name is miss moon. Okay, patty. How much money do you need? I'm sorry. Patty's not here. Would you like to talk to miss moon? No, no, I would not. It's like the moon took a wife. It's me miss moon the worst Russell, um, sorry. I'm being very judgmental. She's free. She's great. Yeah Russell little grew up in modest circumstances in Pensacola, Florida I can't wait to see what happens to rust little He's gonna name his change his name to charlie bigs He grew up in modest circumstances in Pensacola, Florida unaware of the politics and social problems around him in the segregated south He entered college in 1967 to study engineering hoping to become an astronaut But then he began studying marx's philosophy and became alienated from american policies and actions Whoa, that is really took a real left turn from astronaut. Yeah I mean good when you're in look if you want to be an astronaut, don't pick up carl marx books. Yeah Just leave them on the floor. What are you even like because I mean an astronaut back then is fairly patriotic Oh, that's yeah, that's so then what do you you know? Yeah, someone was like really man Why don't you read this just drink the kool-aid and go to space pal? You want to go to the moon? How about you go to this moon? Yeah Go to the moon of your mind man Take the american flag out of your head man Then came the killing of four anti-war protesters at kent state in 1970 by the ohio national guard and that was his turning point Then I felt that people like me were being declared the enemy by the gubben of the united states. He would recall a little move to berkeley But was a little disappointed because the fires seemed to be gone from the protest movement We were pulling out of vietnam and people felt it was over But little didn't see that at all He still saw the same shit happening the same criminals were running the government little and his friends were shocked when richard nixon was elected again in 1972 They continued to push for change and began having screenings of political films about international revolution That's a big that's if you're going for international revolution. You're going I mean start local start. I mean don't go straight to international. It's hard to jump out and go. Let's start national all You know start national. Yeah, I mean if you want to get nixon out of office, that's one way to start All these screenings at all these screenings a group began to form. They were almost all from white privileged backgrounds Uh-oh There was the blonde camellia hall daughter of a lutheran minister from miniapolis who had a degree in art history willy wolf a boy from Amos, pennsylvania who went digging with anthropologists in wyoming in the summer as a teen willy met joe remaro through the vba w slash wso The vietnam veterans against the war winter soldier organization. Good the last part helps Joe was a vietnam vet from san francisco Uh, there were billy and emily harris two married graduates at indiana university who had gone steady for years before marrying They came out to berkeley to be with their friend angela atwood a new jersey native and former high school cheerleader who wanted to be a teacher And a talking dog named scoob And a dube smoking dog named scooby Like patricia who changed her name to misman soon. They would all change her names. Oh boy. This is gonna be fun oh see bow kujo zoya gabby yolanda Fajiza general galina and general tico What the fuck i'm not gonna call them by those fucking names I'm gonna call them by the names they were all right Well, then then can we at least hear the names one more time Yeah, oh see bow kujo zoya gabby yolanda fajiza general galina and general tico Really? There's a build. There's a good spectrum cover There's a lot. Yeah kujo. Hey kujo a yolanda and then some generals. They're mostly swahili names Okay, because if you're a white kid from the suburbs by all means pick a swahili name. It's so horrible. Yeah it's like when like um, I remember when I was a kid like You know, there was a lot of like um Like that band arrested development. There was a lot of like like like black people were really embracing the african aspect And they would be wearing like dashikis and shit like that and then you'd see like the white dude in the mall with a dashiki And you'd be like bro, bro, bro, bro, bro. Not about you. Oh, no, bro. Not about you. Just get it. Just watch. No, no Let's get his support and be like, hey man. I like what are you doing? That was the time too when white dudes as well mount and wear melcom x-shirts and you'd be like well you have to understand There's yeah, not a lot of white dudes who really should be wearing that like You can't just wear that because like he was a badass. It's like he was really Against you. He didn't like you. Yeah Uh They didn't change their names though until after they met donald defrees Hmm the freeze interested in prison reform Willy wolf began to visit the black cultural association at the california medical facility in vacaville That's a prison. It's where the gentleman from one of the first episodes the pendragon are now Uh, wolf was one of the most dedicated visitors to the bca Russell little and joseph vermero were also frequent visitors. That's where they met donald defrees the only black member Of the group defrees was born in cleveland one of eight children a ninth grade dropout a runaway at 14 by 16 He was in his first reform school in 1963. He married and the following year his wife had him arrested for desertion He I didn't know he could be arrested for that. Yeah He was constantly being arrested or maybe she had him arrested for desertion from the army Is desertion a thing? What could you get arrested for that back then? I don't know And like from deserting your wife. Is that a thing? I don't think so that can't be a thing So it must imagine Imagine the law the cops would be like we need to overturn this law We our prisons are full Uh, most of defrees's arrests were involved the possession of guns and bombs Police once picked him up for running a red light on a bicycle and found a bomb and a gun in the basket What the fuck? That's a fucking I mean that is that is that's a badass. Well, it's also like if you're getting pulled over on a bike Like you don't have that moment to be like we're gonna stash this shit. Yeah. Well, I hope they don't look in the basket Oh, I should have covered up my bomb Jesus Christ. Why didn't I bring a jacket to put on top of my bomb? If they ask if they can search the basket, I'm super fucked You might have been looking your basket Uh, he but he had an act for staying out of jail once caught with 15 stolen weapons He snitched on his supplier who was arrested defrees got off But in 1969 he got on to shoot out with police and was given five years to life Jesus the California prison system had become highly politicized. He took on the African name sink Sink See I spelled it so I could read it. Uh, C. I. N. Q. U. E. I think yeah, that sounds right I said I spelled it fanatically because well, what do we know? We're just a couple of dumb mother fucker. Yeah We don't know what we're doing right? Whatever his name was. Uh, so his name was sink Matoome and uh, he became in the he became involved in the black cultural association in back of ill Begun as an inmate self-help group over time the bca became more political largely focused on black nationalism They met twice weekly with Prison-approved visitors for lectures and study groups. I don't know what's happening. Yeah this time in america, but Like so it's basically white people going to listen to black people in prison talk, right? and be like I hear your brother. I yeah, I hear you man. This is I feel your pain brother. This is the greatest example of white guilt I could think of yeah I mean sometimes I wish I just didn't have the socioeconomic background to be barred from an institution like this But there you go. There we go talking about our differences. I mean if I get arrested my daddy helps me out Yeah, he's rich, but not you not you you stole a pen and here you are anyway So they met twice weekly with prisoner prison-approved visitors for studies and lecture groups Most of the outsiders were black until wolf and litter little starter coming DeFries organized his own study group called unisite And invited willy wolf and rust little to join in more joined the group bill and emily harris nancy and joe The main reason to freeze started his own group was because he didn't have many friends in prison Okay, that was mainly because he had been a snitch for the Los Angeles police department in the 60s. Mm-hmm They're all greatly influenced by George Jackson a man who had spent his life Half his life in prison in his cramps cell. He read marks and angles and began writing books He crafted a Marxist critique of American society and an argument in favor of the violent black revolution The revolution he wrote must commit itself to the ordeal of grave digging Fuck that's some serious. That's a tough way to put it. That is. Yeah, I like the way you put it, but uh, that's It's intense. Yeah They have never uh, there have never been spontaneous revolutions. They were all staged manufactured by people who went to the head of the masses and directed them So he's not kidding around. No, I mean so far he's saying some decent stuff Right. Yeah, I mean the killing stuff. Yeah Uh, the white black uh, why Berkeley? Why black kids the white Berkeley kids? Now wanted to help the prisoners because they believe black convicts were victims of the state Which I think you can make an argument for yeah I think it's certainly said little we know there are people in prison that we don't think should be there But what are we willing to do about it? well First uh, cause of problem with the bca in vacaville the frieze wanted to lead the bca But he wasn't allowed to stand in an election because he had missed several meetings, which meant he couldn't be president Okay, the frieze then complained to the warden right So look I'm just gonna put this out there if you're a if you're a black gentleman and you're in prison Yeah, and you want to lead a black group that has formed in the prison. Yeah I would recommend not complaining to the warden. Yeah Yeah Yeah, it seems like the wrong way to go right a little bit dig the other direction Hey, mr. Jenkins. They won't let me read the black caucus. Ah, the stabbing me the stabbing me So, uh, his reputation as an informer increased black caucus. Nice. Thank you black cock. Yeah, I'll do that out there Uh, his reputation as an informer increased if you can imagine so The bca then went underwent major changes rumor began rumors began that their leader westbrook had ties with the cia and a familiar Familiarity with brainwashing and mind control. Oh shit This forced the board to demand his removal in late december of 1972 westbrook said that the mowice had taken over the bca The mowice? Yeah Okay, well, I mean yeah Very specific very specific He pointed the finger at little calling him the sneaky little son of a bitch and willy wolf an immature kid Okay DeFries was then classified a minimum risk prisoner and transferred from vacaville to soledad On the night of march 5th 1973 He was taken out of central and escorted to the old abandoned minimum prison facility notice soledad south Soledad south was in gross disrepair Authorities plan to renovate it for use as a training ground for new correctional officers But on the night de frieze was escorted there to work on the boiler Only the only correctional officers present was de frieze's guard and for some bonus place reason That officer had business elsewhere and left What a great switch Hey, you're good with the boiler. I gotta get back to the prison. Okay By only things standing in my way. So he just walked walked away. He did. He just took it out of course I mean you gotta be expecting a dude to be a really good dude to sit through that I know I mean for a while. Yeah, fuck He made his way straight to oakland, but none of his old contacts would have anything to do with him So he went to his new friends little and wolf of course took him in and he lived with and had a relationship with patricia They there they discussed what was wrong with america and hatched plans Okay, by the end of the summer fiercely opposed to what they viewed as an oppressive racist society They formed a revolutionary group. Here we go The success of the castro revolution in cuba served as their model Okay Sure, he said okay to that but that's not okay. Well, I don't even really know what I don't I don't know how the The cuban revolution began. Yeah, but it's just not like america, right? Stronger the free. Yeah much stronger the freeze and beaches everywhere surrounded by yeah. Yeah You you're saying women, right? Yeah surrounded by beaches. Yeah Yeah, beaches all over me cuban revolution style the freeze had come across the word symbiosis While reading the dictionary in prison. Okay, like that word. Sure. That's a nice word to him Okay, it was defined as a separate as separate entities coming together for their mutual benefit. Mm-hmm like that Yeah, symbiotic. They then changed the word to symbionese Hmm. That's interesting. Sim. Okay. Symbionese Sure Then they added liberation army and they had the name for their group It doesn't I'll say just on the pieces that I've heard already. I don't think it's a catchy name the symbionese Liberation army the sla welcome to it, bitch Their militant loosely marked assist priorities included ending racism monogamy the prison system and all other institutions that have made and sustained capitalism So they're starting so they have a small agenda. Yeah. Yeah ending monogamy I'll never forget when I went to uh, the first Gulf War I protested at college. Yeah, and I went to this meeting and there are all these people protesting And all these people were talking about how they were gonna protest and some guys stood up and went and we've also got to tackle racism And I was like, I'm out. Yeah. Well, I'm gonna go somewhere else most protests you go to Many people are fucking it up with the lack of clarity people are like it's just an opportunity to get out there and talk about how Bullshit McDonald's is you're like we're talking about the taxes your motherfucker Um Of course they were going to need new names. That's when they got all their names. No. Yeah, they got all those are those Yeah, that's how they got all their names. Okay. I thought you said I thought you were suggesting a new name switch No, they didn't go the third name. This is when they got their names and defrees became general field marshal sink What and was the group's leader? Okay? Their black nationalist program sounds like a good plumber. Yeah, so it's a black guy and nine white rich kids. Yep By the way, the black guy defrees a huge pickup A huge a huge pickup Talk about a free agent signing. Well, he really gave them a legitimacy. There's that's a very good off-season move Yeah, I mean you you you know, a lot of these kids have been cheerleaders And and they've studied art, but now they got a guy who will roll up in a bike with a bomb and a basket Yeah, now I mean You really do need that to sort of balance this out because they all have had a pretty charmed life for the most part You need the guy who's just like a dropout who's carrying a bomb and a basket on a bike. Hey, you guys need 30 guns. Yeah Waiting for you Their black nationalist program included creating a system of homelands within the u.s. From minority groups Wait, wait, boy um What? I'm gonna read that again. They're black nationalist program included creating a system of homelands within the u.s. For minority groups Gettos. Well, we have that they're called reservations and they're not great But how is that? Well, they like it would so be like a it would be like a I think they're talking about having different having separate countries within the United States. Yeah, but how does that help end racism? Well, they're separate Thus That that's like saying like I don't like Licorice I'm gonna learn to like licorice by throwing it in the garbage. Well, you're part of the fucking system, man No, I'm not part of the system. I'm just the fucking Maoist, man It I don't see any problems with that plan. No, no, there's no problems there They trained with BB guns in the Berkeley Hills and took target practice at local gun ranges. So that's when you go I'm out of here I think I was out of there when they started going I'm definitely there's there's there's I'm starting to hear Like more and more reasons why I should leave but it's when we're doing BB gun target practice that I'm like, all right guys I'm gonna get one of these bikes and get out of here I'll see you guys later. It's been fun playing with you So now they had four members of their multi ethnic and multi rational Revolutionary organization, right? So I guess there's just four they put together now Which would serve as the vanguard for a Marxist revolution in the United States. They realized they needed a symbol So they adopted the seven headed cobra as their symbol of the sla any Sure, there was but you know, no one wants to hear it. I couldn't find it But really it's just fucking stupid horseshit. It's not good. No, they were high and they saw a picture of a seven headed cobra This this sounds almost like hearing about a band that was terrible. They copied it from a book at the Berkeley Public Library See if you're starting a revolution, yeah, you don't do it majorizing You don't go to a government funded library and get pictures. Yeah So it's gonna be a good revolution. No, it sounds good. They do now that the seven headed cobras come on board, right? It's like it's like, uh Uh, the karate kid. Yeah. Yeah. No. Yeah, we found that we found the yeah the sign says it all They drafted a series of documents that included a declaration of war against the fascist united states Codes of war the terms of a military and political alliance with the united simianese war council the creation of a simba anese federation And they sat down on paper the seven principles on which they founded the sla I wasn't gonna get into them because once you get into that this is the point where they're just sitting around talking a lot Yeah, and they just keep coming up with shit. So they don't have to do anything. Yeah, it felt like that Uh, the original it's like the person who never really wants to write the book right? Yeah, right? It's still we're going the other side research and man still just in the research phase man great stuff about ducks Yeah, i'm gonna put in there. I posted a picture on instagram of some uh note cards I put on my wall so that legitimizes this sham process Before sla members then took their work to different leftist leaders and organizations to show them They got a really mixed reception because many like a pitch they're going they're pitching Yeah, basically they're just pitching. So now they're going hot to other organizations and being like hey, man What do you think about starting a revolution? It sounds like they're pitching a show to networks They got a really mixed reception because many leftists thought it was too impractical to form multiracial units So then they said about recruiting The others who had visited the bca quickly jumped in soon. They were 10 Just 10 people 10 people August of 1973 was a big month for the sla. Oh boy on august 2nd 1973 the sla aided in the escape of Therro Levan Wheeler from vacaville and placed him in a safe house Wheeler had taken over unicite when defreeze was transferred Then on august 21st 1973 the sla released its declaration of war against united states finally It goes public They expected it to be a big deal, but nobody noticed. Why would anyone give there's 10 of them? Yeah, there was a guy I knew when I was in moscow sent this dude in brown deer park who would run for president every four years Yeah, I know he had pamphlets and he had all this shit and he would be explaining to me when I was 15 Why he should be president? Yeah, and I'd be like, you know, I don't know if this guy expects more than Yeah, just being the guy in the park who hands out pamphlets every four years He should probably get out of the fucking park. That's where they are at this point Yeah, they're the guy in the park handing out the pamphlets teenagers Jesus Christ So there was no press no one seemed to notice or care defreeze You know what? I'm not going to call these guys by their crazy names, right? So no general sync. I'm not I'm not going to do that You're just I can't it's your protest because I started reading I started writing this and then when I got down to here. I was like I should call them by their names And then I was like I can't because I only get fucking so mixed up Can I just call patty patty and Nancy Nancy? All right. That's fair defreeze. Defreeze. That's fair I'm not going to call them general unless I had like a key in front of me. I don't think I'd be able to keep track Okay So defreeze had wanted to put out a press release saying that they had broken wheeler out of jail And this was only the beginning But wheeler was like hey, that's crazy. Then they'll know who helped me That's the dumbest thing anyone's ever said It didn't know who helped me and then they'll kick in the door of all the places we live at So let's not do that. Yeah, let's not do the thing about me and defreeze was like, all right. Yeah, okay I guess And then the press release went nowhere and defreeze was mad. He was like man, that was the thing that could have gotten us the press He does have a point Yeah, but his wouldn't his point end because he would they would both go to jail Shhh All right A new member of the group wheeler considered the work of the original four s s l a members to be quote really shit Okay It was one thing to talk about revolution in prison and in abstract terms It was quite another to actually launch a bombing and assassination campaign I couldn't seriously recruit for him because he was often to suicide and bullshit wheeler said about defreeze good My name is always a problem. Fortunately wheeler's girlfriend was a lumber and real estate heiress from redding, california Uh, I don't know what was happening in the world. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's a fair point there too a lumber heiress a lumber heiress who was Who met a criminal like it's just it also though it totally already sounds like she's like The girl who's in love with the shitty comic She married the drummer. She's like, yeah, she's like, I'll not do whatever baby follow your dreams You want to start a revolutionary? Go do your little revolution I will support us Oh, you go blow stuff up And then she's like talking to her girlfriends are like, what is he gonna do? It's like, oh, well, you don't even understand. What's this revolution game takes off? They just got a seven-headed cobra. Have you heard about Cuba? Yeah, things are crazy She joined and gave him a couple thousand dollars Which he shared with the sla other funds coming in including Included patricius paycheck from the berkeley public library. Oh god Can you feel the revolution man? Oh, yeah here guys here's eight nickels ling's salary and tips from fruity rudies Ling asked her former berkeley instructor for 500, but he wrote a check for 50 instead I love that she went to her her fucking her lat her instructor at berkeley and he was like, I don't want to start a revolution You know, I can give you 50. Yeah. Yeah Listen, I'm just a professor. I live in check to check I It apparently was never cashed so they didn't even take the 50 beyond that little else was coming in wheeler suggested That's a very puzzling move. Yeah for an organization that really probably needs every every nickel it can get high start talking about revolution and lose the check Amen. Did you cash that shit? Shit man. I think we rolled the joint out of that check man. Oh so Money was not coming and wheeler suggested robbing banks because it would be a strike against quote these centers of capitalist oppression Uh, that's that's really Making the I mean that's that's putting it very nicely. Yeah You know if we rob a bank not only we have money, but we'll be hitting them where it hurts check it right in the heart Right where they keep their insurance. Yeah Yeah, DeFries thought that that was premature since the LSA had SLA has not developed sufficiently enough for such a high profile action He didn't think they could pull it off wheel and deFries were seeing eye to eye weren't seeing eye to eye and tensions starting to boil over wheeler took his girlfriend And went to stay at their safe house DeFries and the others made them come back at gunpoint and they were held for two days in the apartment before they escaped Okay, so now it's now we're in a crazy place. Right? So now we're like now they're they're not they're not wheeler fucking took off man He's gonna fucking tell everybody about the revolution and there ain't gonna be a revolution So we gotta stop this motherfucker. Yeah. Yeah, uh-huh more coke more coke anyone feel very cocky more coke Yeah, anyone like some more cocaine and then we'll go kidnap our two friends It feels super cocky and then we'll go kidnap 20 of the movement god wheeler We thought the SLA were crazy and that they would all end up dead Meanwhile, the SLA had decided upon their first act of the revolution They were gonna assassinate educator Marcus Foster the first black superintendent of the Oakland school district Okay, all right. Okay. So So you're trying to get a message across a message that's so far to me sounds pretty vague and non-specific but one of the things that I would say so far um Is that they want to eliminate racism now when nine white people kill a black superintendent in in Oakland, right? The first the first black that's gonna come across racist as fuck. I don't know what you're talking about. Yeah Yeah, you do Um Okay, I'll call the freeze sink, but that's it. Um, he I'll call him sink. Okay. Well, if you're gonna. Yeah, I was gonna say That's only one feel general sink By the way, general sink is the thing that general sink is the thing that your iTunes does All right, I'll call I'll call Patricia mismoon That's it. That's as far as I'm going at least confusing Okay, so sink a general sink had a huge heart on for publicity and notoriety That's what happens when your daddy doesn't love you. I think uh, And now that wheeler was gone. There was no one to voice opposition to crazy plans like hey Let's kill the black superintendent of the Oakland school district, right? They decided to kill foster because he supported giving identification cards to students, which of course was fascist That is so fun. I mean they want to give cards to the students. So when the school will know who they are Yeah, do you want to flew the cat? Yeah, or do I check out the whiteberry? Hey, nine white people go kill that black guy. You know what? They don't need to know the students names They should just give them fucking numbers. How not numbers, man. They should give them colors. How is that the first? How is that the first move? I don't know. It's a good one. It's a terribly weird move on November 6 1973 Marcus Foster and Robert Blackburn Byrne walked out of an Oakland school administration building building Blackburn noticed two figures leaning against the building But he kept walking across the parking lot and grossed in his conversation with his companion Suddenly the guns went off and I felt slammed hit spun around Blackburn said the two figures were crouching And I saw flashes from the muzzles of their guns. Then I was being hit from behind with a shotgun I stumbled down the side of the car into a narrow alley stumbling and reeling The bullets were packed with cyanide. Oh Jesus Foster was hit eight times They stood over Marcus and put another round in his head Blackburn said Blackburn survived even though he was filled with shotgun pellets and cyanide bullets He had 23 entry and exit wounds. What the fuck? Yeah Foster it turns out was very popular with the left and the black community Oh god See this is why you don't go there It's just not on message it's off message The day after the assassination the sla said it killed Foster because he had supported a program that would require ID cards for all high school students, but But it turns out Foster had not supported the program. Oh my god Source your shit Vet your fucking platform. Oh god Wait, who who said that which one of us said that that was real The sla was roundly condemned even by the far left for killing Foster So everyone was like that was a bad idea, man. They're like well now we're conservative fuck they rented out A hideout and conquered california to stay low little romero nancy and defreeze were staying there other members of the sla would come and go In late november a mugger followed nancy into the hideout and pulled a gun She disarmed him with a kick When officers responded She would only talk to them on the lawn Oh my god unknown to them the sla arsenal was inside now. There's a couple things. I don't understand about this I think if that if that's if that's where that ends there's a there's so many questions I couldn't find anything else about that Uh, did they call the cops crazy as fuck? Yeah crazy as fuck if they did that She like the first of all a mugger followed her in and she'd pulled the jackie brown and fucking disarmed him And then maybe the gun went off and the heart stayed the ones who hate these institutions Yeah, why why are the cops did someone else hide to have called the cops who something like a neighbor was like I think I just heard a gun get kicked Call the police harry At 1 30 a.m on janeary 10, but then the cops didn't do anything no they the cops are the best the cops Man like I remember hearing about dommer when he was back in his fucking heyday Those are how the cops are like hey, where are you going with this drug to asian man? And he's like he's drunk and they're my boyfriend. All right Hey, have a good night. Go eat him move it along. Yeah Um, okay great. All right. Good little aside. Let's keep going and 1 30 a.m on janeary 10 They conquered police officers stopped russle little and joseph rameiro Who were driving suspiciously in a battered chevy van? I don't think there's any other way to drive in a battered chevy van. No you can't you driving affluently in a battered chevy van Little showed the officer a phony license and mumbled that he was looking for the devoto home But this is right where the sla had been hiding out after the shooting and they were renting the house under an assumed name when the officer then asked the passenger to identify himself Rameiro reached for his pistol. What here's my identification mother fucker too early too early A gun a gunfight erupted little was wounded and captured rameiro escaped on foot In the van Was a stack of sla leaflets I mean, I mean They were out passing out leaflets. Yeah, great, you know what they're coming back to a hard day of passing out leaflets You know four hours later rameiro surrendered only a block from the sla hideout The sla knew it was only a matter of time before police would find the hideout So nancy perry soaked the house in gasoline and lit it on fire Is anyone there at any point going hey guys should we fucking do something that matters? Is there any way to like actually do you how do you start a revolution bro? Hey, man, look dude, we got to burn the hideout down, man. I'll admit this is not going well I don't know. We're gonna get our deposit back nancy Altamy ultimately so far all they did was kill a guy So far all they did was kill someone they shouldn't have right that's the but that's that's murder That's fucking revolution to some people. Yeah Um, so she didn't do a good job of soaking the house a neighbor spotted the fire called the fire department and the fire was quickly put out Oh my god Inside police found a bomb factory tons of ammunition radical literature notes indicating surveillance of businessmen and plotted assassinations and personal effects Easily traceable to all sla figures and associates But think about how When you burn that first think about Think about how bad and incompetent you have to be to not burn down a house of bombs Like it's it's it's like hard to keep it not burned. Yeah How the fuck are you like lighting a house on fire full of bombs and it doesn't work Yeah, they're not good at this they're not good So they found all that stuff Atwood had left a library card Perry, I mean what the just stay just stay just stay there Just stay there Perry had left her her colleague diploma. I mean what the fuck are they doing? Harris numbered caps from the job he had taken with the post office Well, I mean weird beyond weird. Yeah, uh, remaro left a notebook Books from the public library where uh, miss moon worked There were boxes of files notes lists of names Overnight the sla soldiers all became fugitives and they had to walk away from homes jobs and family Emily and bill Harris exited typically they left coffee on the stove toothbrushes in the bathroom three pistol boxes open and empty Okay, the Hearst family Had come to california in 1862 uh-huh They had great success in mining and summa rich george became a u.s senator his wife a philanthropist their son William Randolph Went into the newspaper business which he turned into an empire. It was known for yellow journalism He built he built huge homes including a castle and entertain entertain celebrities. He had several children including patricia Hearst in 1974 Okay Okay In 1974 patty was a student at berkeley. Uh-huh all was going well. She just got engaged to steven weed Everyone knew this because her father's newspaper the san francisco chronicle had a story in the society section announcing the engagement in new November The article included patty and steven's address number four at two six oh three ben finu avenue A street in berkeley california come on by do whatever It's so crazy. It's crazy How did they not know that would be not be a problem? Here's the thing right and this is that We do need to remember that at one point you could be open and honest with the world Yes, so but the 60s had happened and yeah, it's not a thing anymore. I mean the 50s You probably could do that. Yeah, unless you were like a black guy trying to live in the south And then some people just come to your house and drag you outside. True. Yes. Well, I'm telling you. Yes So it wasn't safe for everybody. No, well, it's it's it's still not safe for black people But the weathermen I think it happened maybe the weathermen I think the weathermen had happened by then with all of us probably right we'd already had Terrorism groups. Yeah, okay regardless So now the nsl sl. A were at this point seen as like bungling idiots who why killed black for a purpose So they needed something big they needed a big score Around nine o'clock in the evening on february 4th 1974 There was a knock on the door of the apartment at number four 2063 Ben the new street in berkeley In burst a group of men and women with their guns drawn they grabbed a surprised 19 old patty hearst Beat up her fiance threw her in the trunk of their car and drove off. She was taken to a safe house and locked in a closet The effect was immediate. Yeah General marshall sink got his publicity nationwide. It was front page national news. Finally Finally, right a little respect a little respect finally The kidnapping was intended because look if you're fighting a revolution The first thing you want to grab is a 19 year old girl. Yeah, right? Yeah, grab a hearst. Yeah The kidnapping was intended to lead to a prisoner swap The sl. A wanted to exchange hearst for little and romero On february 6th the sl. A announced it was holding hearst, but issued no ransom terms the communique as it called itself uh It said it was a warrant for the arrest of patricia cambell hearst enclosed patty hearst's credit card and a warning that anyone attempting to interfere would be executed The sl. A announced all communications from this court must be published In full in all newspapers and all other forms of media. Okay The next said they wanted to swap prisoners and state authorities were like, yeah, no, we're not We we can't do that because that would open up a fucking can of worms that you can't even comprehend Now we can't just you can't kidnap random people and then ask for your buddy, please Please do this. Yeah, we're not doing that please or So the sl. A switched Demands on february 12 always always good always good always good when you're like, well fuck man. All right Something else. All right. What's our next best case? Here she kisses. All right. Cool. Cool. Cool On february 12th the hearst received a recording of their daughter's voice along with an sl. A demand that the hearst used their wealth and power to distribute food to the poor Mom dad patty said i'm with a combat unit that's armed with automatic weapons I want to get out of here and I just hope you'll do what they say Patty hearst told her parents she was okay that she was not being starved or unnecessarily beaten She told police Not to try to find her William Randolph Hearst probably probably speaking from the heart on that one. I'm sure William Randolph Hearst replied that the demands of the sl. A were quote impossible Patty then spoke in another communique on february 16th asking her parents to quote stop acting like i'm dead Defree stated that that the sl. A was looking for a good faith gesture. So On february 19th, but they're but they asked them to feed the poor. Yeah I mean they said they were going big. They're not they're going big How is this getting how is this is anyone voting? How is this getting out there? This is How is this your final draft? This is the start of the revolution, man Feed the poor so on february 19th hearst announced he would create people in need A food distribution program. He said about giving out food to the poor and what was called the most bizarre ransom ever $2 million worth of food was purchased distribution points were set up in slum areas throughout los angeles and san francisco Long lines formed as people people gathered to collect bags containing turkey bread milk eggs fruit and vegetables But then fighting broke out on the lines which led to clashes with food organizers and police full riots Oh my god In oakland, california a 5,000 strong crowd grew angry when organizers threw food from a window to them as they waited below I mean what what is this is a vita? What is happening? I mean, how could you handle it like that's not how you do food distribution to the homeless? Is it turkey can't turkey here throw the food at them One policeman was stabbed and one man in the crowd was knocked unconscious as people began throwing cans of food back in the window So Afterwards the Afterwards the sla demanded hearst give out another four million in food I mean Oh god The ransom negotiations dragged on patty hearst's father announced on tv that the slas six million demand was beyond his Capabilities the matter is now out of my hands. He said he offered to pay two million for patty's immediate release an additional two million in january 1975 he continued the food distributions over the next few weeks which went better Less riots. Well, it couldn't go worse patty hearst next criticized her parents in a fourth recorded tape saying quote I don't believe that you're doing anything at all Her parents were convinced that she was being brainwashed, but patty would later say I felt my parents were debating how much I was worth It was horrible feeling that my parents could think of me in terms of dollars and cents Her mother had taken to wearing black and speaking of patty in the past tense what What it's how fucked up was that? That's who this is it is hard to find This is tough. There's not a lot of heroics in that What is she doing? Is that a tactic? Worse her mother had ignored an sla demand by accepting another appointment from then governor ron regan as a regent of the university of california Wait say that again She accepted a job as a regent at the university of california a region Which is one of the people who run the university of california and the university of california is one of the biggest defense contractors in the world Good smart timing patty felt like i'm gonna take this job to take my mind off my dead daughter She's she's the worst herst Patty felt like her own mother didn't care whether sla shot her or not The kidnapping dragged on in a fifth tape recording now 59 days after the kidnapping Patty Hearst announced her Denounced her family patty explained that the group members were her comrades and that their criminal actions were necessary to support the gang's plans for revolution Along with the tape was a picture of Hearst holding machine gun in front of an sla banner She took the name tanya Fucking a on april 15th 1974 the sunsets district branch of the high hibernia bank at 1450 noriega street in san francisco was robbed at gunpoint by five people. They got away with ten thousand dollars Caught on surveillance was a photo of patty Hearst holding an m1 carbine yelling commands to bank customers Within a week the fbi issued a wanted poster with pictures of donald defreeze patricia soltsic salty sick mismund Nancy perry camelia hall patricia cambell hearst Hearst was charged as a material witness, but in a sixth recorded tape patty offered evidence of her full dispassion Oh, boy standing that at no time that her comrades have a gun pointed at her. She referred to her family as the pig Hearst's And do steven weed her fiance as an ageist sexist pig Man, he's got to be like oh patty Patty patty She said the idea of her being brainwashed was ridiculous, which is just classic. It's a brainwash. That's that's the yeah That's what you say in brainwashing The united states attorney general william b saxby said Hearst was a common criminal and not a reluctant participant in the bank robbery general Sink knew that if the slay were to survive they needed more members But because they but because they had killed foster they were having a hard time recruiting in the san francisco bay area And because they're the dumbest There's got to be better or I could start an organization today. Hey, man You want to join our revolution and kill black guys and kidnap young girls teenage girls? But also think of how much money they left on the field with patty They so easily I can't say yeah. All right patty. Here's the deal. You're on board great We're gonna fake your release. Yeah, you're gonna go to your parents get a million dollars out of them somehow come back here Let's fucking do this shit, but they also left him. He already said he'd give him two million in cash Yes, they've complete. Yeah, and then she would come back Yeah And look, they're not great planners. They're they already shot a school superintendent. They're not good So they decided to move to los angeles to recruit On may 15th in los angeles the fbi admitted they were stumped and made a public appeal for help Two days later bill and emily harris walked into mel's sporting goods in south los angeles and bought 31 50 worth of outdoor gear mostly uh Camo flannel thermals flannel thermal flannels and thermals. Mm-hmm It's los angeles sure While emily played paid for the merchandise Bill stole some socks classic bill Star security psalm they confronted the couple outside and demanded payment bill and emily fought One of the security men managed to get handcuffs around one of bill's wrists A 38 pistol fell out of bill's pocket Patty was across the street waiting in a van. She yelled let them go you mother fuckers or you're all dead She then pointed an automatic weapon and shot holes into the plate glass window of the store Security dofer cover the store manager hid behind a light post. He tried to shoot back with his pistol with the pistol I love that he picked up the pistol. He picked up the gun But hers now shooting with another gun shot at the light post patty had been taught how to shoot By her father God I've gotten patty the best the best marksman training Bill emily and patty escaped in a van which they quickly abandoned. Think of how fucking dumb again Pick your spots. No, no sporting goods. Get some socks. Pick your spots. Steal some socks stealing like the fucking socks or an extra eight bucks, bro It's like in high school a bunny of mine stole a scarface CD from best buy and got caught and we were all just like it's just It was not a good It wasn't worth it. It wasn't what was the upside to free socks? Well, you don't just buy the scarface movie because that guy's a fucking scarface. No the scarface the rapper the cd even worse Oh, it's a terrible idea. Yeah So they uh, they took off in a van which they quickly abandoned the harris's and tanya began their complicated escape in los angeles Early the next early the next day police found the van and discovered the location of the sla safe house from a parking ticket in the glove box I mean, it's not a scavenger hunt for cops. You dumbass Just I mean literally Yeah, you could you couldn't you just couldn't pay less attention You couldn't But the sla had fled the safe house when they saw the store shooting on the news They holed up in the house in a house owned by two local women A neighbor seven-year-old brandon davis was sleeping on the couch When he woke up he found a different situation than when he had gone to sleep Uh-oh I went down to minis every thursday evening to play some cards and drink a little and fell asleep early and when I woke up around 2am I saw four white four white women and three dudes two black guys in one white And I saw guns spread out all over the floor and I asked them why they had guns I had never seen more of my life then an answer and instead the black dude asked me my name and then introduced me to everyone Now that's a weird scene It's I mean it sounds like he might have handled that okay for them The mister act that you have the kids like hey, what are you guys doing here? Hey, what's your name? What are you from man? Why I got so many what are you from man? What's your name man brandon? Oh man That's crazy. Okay. All right. Well, let me introduce you to the rest of us. This is miss moon I'm uh field general sink. What yeah, you're brandon. Yeah, all right. We're gonna call you uh kite master Okay, yeah, this is I feel weird. Oh, dude. You're gonna love it That then you should be a part of this group. Okay. All we do is feel weird to make bad calls I would like to go can I go um Well judging by our track record. Yeah, go tell the cops everything Whatever The mother of one of the women who owned the house called police and told them a heavily armed group was holed up there The police spent the rest of the day getting 500 police officers and other law enforcement to surround the house and local area On the afternoon that afternoon the LAPD was ready to go swat Swat said the orders into a bullhorn occupants of 1466 east 54th street This is the Los Angeles the police department speaking come out with your hands up A young child walked out with an older man The man said no one else was in the house But then the kid said that several people were in the house with guns Billy Billy Billy Billy Billy Billy Billy I he's got the most vivid imagination He sees guns everywhere my little bill A member of the swat team fired tear gas into the house The sl. A responded by shooting their automatic weapons and one of the greatest gun battles in the history of us law enforcement began We covered this in the LAPD episode the swat team went The shooting went on for uh over two hours before the house caught on fire At that point two women exited the back of the house and one came out the front They were all arrested but none of them were sl. A members The woman who came out the front had been partying the night before and came to the house drunk She proceeded to pass out and woke up in the middle of the gunfight. I mean Man, you know like like you know how a hangover is like rough when you got nothing to do Like you know you got an event you're like, oh, I'm just gotta get some food and like Watch some tv. I'll be okay. Little rip a pot. I'll be okay What's what's the fucking sign waking up being like what what? That's loud The house is on fire. Shit um, so uh, Nancy Perry and cameo hall Came out the back of the house and were both shot and killed the rest of the sl. A members in the house died of smoke inhalation gunshot wounds Or burns dolled to freeze shot himself The police department did not move in to put out the fire and just let the house burn Between both groups Over 9,000 rounds of ammunition were fired not one police officer was shot. One did break a leg when he fell off a roof The s.l.a. dead were Nancy ling perry or peri ling Fajiza, okay. I thought that was miss moon Angela atwood general galina. That's right Camelia hall gabby willy wolf coup joe Big leap donald defreeze general sink. We don't remember field general and patricia or miss moon miss moon or She also called herself zoa. Oh, didn't realize that Bill emily and patty listened to the shootout on the radio Patty listened as her boyfriend kooja was killed in the house. So patty was at that point was seeing was she was with kooja Yeah I wonder if she saw the movie when it came out. Oh, yeah, I'm sure They patty's situation sounds a lot like trading places Oh my god They then bought an old shitty car for 350 bucks and headed back to the bay area She was a fucking she had it made Arriving at san francisco earlier the next morning. They went to a friend's house. You're alive. He yelled then he panicked You can't stay here. The whole state is gonna be crawling with pigs looking for you. He gave them five dollars and shut the door Don't come back. Okay. There's there's the hero of the dollar. There's the hero of the dollar. That's our guy That's the smartest guy in this in this podcast They went back out to the car and the car wouldn't start So they were on foot They spent the next day Under a victorian house in a crawl space usually inhabited by rats Hey life at the top, right? Hey, man. How's the revolution going really good except this rats eating my dress They spent the next two weeks in san francisco hiding in flop houses Bill posed as a whino and the ladies as posed as dirty faced old women. That's a quote Man someday. I just want to be posing as a whino too Because I'll just be fucked on wine. I love that like a 20 year old girl is posing as a Dirty faced old woman. Yeah. Yeah Got any bread heels Two weeks later they headed to berkeley When they heard there was a rally called to commemorate the death of sl. A member angela atwood. Hey, don't go to that There one of the speakers kathy salaya said she now considered herself to be a member of the sl. A A couple hours later the three fugitives were in kathy's apartment sipping tea. Oh god Now if you're a cop Yeah, or an fbi investigator and you hear that there is a rally To commemorate one of the people that you just had a shootout with and died You go to that and when someone stands up and says i'm an sl. A member now We just follow that person But dare I say that the police and the fbi were probably like there's no way Any of them will go to this but with everything they've done so far there would no of course there should be Yes, there should be the guy who's like the antithetical cop who whatever they say is like right But remember it's sl. A so all the members will probably be there with sl. A Jacket letterman jackets, parking tickets calling cards diplomas. Yeah So Uh, but they didn't they were they couldn't stay there too long and quickly discovered other sl. A sympathize sympathizers weren't down With having the fugitives in their home on june 7th. Hearst and the harris's sent the media a recorded eulogy for the murdered members of their group Hearst proclaimed her love for willy wolf and vowed that the sl. A would continue its fight Jack Scott was a sports writer. He was feeling a bit disillusioned about his work and he wanted to write something with more meaning He was fascinated by the sl. A so he headed for berkeley He asked people in the movement about the group and then one day a man offered to introduce them to the introduce him to the sl. A Jack's hopes of writing books at the sl. A Writing a book about the sl. A Was coming close to reality Okay at two o'clock the next morning Sorry afternoon. He was on the corner of telegraph and dwight way Where he was told he would be contacted For nearly an hour. He stood uncomfortably in the sun, but no one approached him Then as he began to walk away, he was stopped by a short dark man dressed in a white tennis outfit carrying a tennis racket Hey, nothing weird there. The man gave jack an address and told him to come by that evening Jack circled the block several times before finally knocking on the door A face looked out from behind a curtain the door opened and jack walked into a room prepared for a police invasion Mattresses were piled up against the doors and next to the windows Rifles that had been converted to automatic machine guns were lined up next to a pair of duffel bags Grenades were stacked in strategic corners One gun was cradled by patty Emily Harris was the only other one in the room She came forward and smiled tentatively. I'm yolanda Then the man in the tennis outfit emerged from another room and gripped jack's hand. I'm lost. I just love tennis I'm general tico General tico? Yeah Is he new? Well, he's he was tico before but now that everyone else is dead. He's general. Yeah, he's the leader now Okay, general tico cool. And his idea to hide from the cops was to put on a tennis outfit. Yeah smart I'm gonna act like the bourgeoisie mother fucker. Yeah. Yeah, I'm gonna wear a tennis outfit on a campus Uh, they spoke for a while the three sla members were extremely paranoid grabbing their assault rifles every time there was a noise outside Jack offered up that he had a 40 000 dollar inheritance and he would help them if they would give up their weapons Ah, jack, what is he what's yeah, okay After a long time they agreed what so they basically argued all night and then they were like, okay, we'll give up the money Wait, they'll give up the weapons for the weapons for the money Yeah, and then he would and then he would take he was gonna use the inheritance to take care of them So he rented a farmhouse in pennsylvania And they all traveled out there separately There they holed up for months The farm was isolated it had a pond for fishing Which you could eat. Yeah, it was ideal by mid-morning the fugitives were lying out in the sun patty spent long hours on a grassy Hammock, but by the way that was patty's life. That's what patty could have had this Man, it's just nice to be in a hammock. Yeah dumbass. Yeah, but now she was doing something. Yeah, she's fighting a revolution She's fighting a revolution. Yeah, no, she's not she's in a hammock. Well revolution within days All three were at crimson brown the pennsylvania summer seemed to relax and rejuvenate the fugitives They read marks and debris and during the morning and then went sunning and swimming chasing each other into the water They picked wild blackberries from bushes growing across the road and dropped hook and line in search of scavenger fish They so they're still sort of they're still sort of liberating the blacks like to cook with butter and onions Wait, what they like to cook the fish with butter and onions Who care I mean how's your revolution going? Well, I'll tell you what the revolution's been good to us. We've all put on 30 pounds A healthy revolution Each day patty practiced walking with a pillow stepped under her dress sure She was disguised as a pregnant teenager with freckles throughout the summer the fugitives had studied the art of disguise reading books on techniques for dying and styling hair affecting lifts and limps attaching artificial moles scars and tattoos Within minutes, so that's how you could find the sla just look for the three weirdest looking people on the street Hey, you guys in a sketch. Yeah Hey, look is it just me or is that patty hearse next to that guy with all the moles and the scabs limping What's that got 14 moles? Yeah, and I've a lisp and a limp. Yeah, and why does she look like a tennis outfit? Oh god Within minutes they could switch from the hippie mode into young professional From seedy bum to rough knock rough neck hillbilly. They were ready Jack was annoyed at their endless preparation and the talk of revolution The sla were upset that he had made them disarm But they found a BB gun in the barn and would run military maneuvers each day 30 minutes each Boy, that's gonna come in really handy Jack continued to try to write the book after a couple of months jack bought an expensive dinner of steak and wine Though they all enjoyed it bill called jack a bourgeoisie pig What? I love that the steak. Yeah, not the fucking farmhouse that you're running and playing in the pond Also, my guess is that comment comes after the meal. Oh, I am Stuffed ah, you rich piece of shit. Excuse me. Yeah. Yeah. That's not the thing when they set it down You're like, oh you bourgeois, you know, you're like done Man, you're a real fucking asshole. You know that But you're a 90 dollar meal, you know, I don't even look at me because I'm gonna take a night swim in the pod Yeah, I'm gonna go lay in the hammock, but you're a fucking asshole Okay, the lease was coming up on the farm and jack said it was time to go their separate ways Besides jack had become friends with college basketball great bill walton during a trip last month to oregon And he was gonna write a book about him. He's like, you know bill's actually interested in doing something You know what man? I'm tired of hiding fugitives. I'm gonna go write a biography from bill walton. I'm all over the map sure Fortunately things have cooled down out west the police and FBI figured the sla had gotten away new people were ready to join the sla Drive them back out west from the farm and harbor the fugitives Except for patty who had such a high profile. No one wanted to drive her out. Okay so jack Who had now been in oregon for a while with bill walton flew back to the House in pennsylvania and drove patty out west on his own That's a nice guy And then and then he went a separate way The new sla was comprised of eight members Five new people had joined Mostly related to or friends with kathy the woman who had stood up at the rally They helped to harbor the fugitives on april 18th 1975 a middle-aged woman named mirna This is a terrible nasty name upsol Walked in to crocker bank in carmichael california She was a 42 year old mother of four who was there to deposit collections from carmichael's seventh day advantage church Moments later bill kathy emily james kilgore and michael borton Burst in and announced a holdup They told everyone to get down on the floor and then shots rang out Some of which hit upsol They were maybe it's upsahi. Yeah, there was a that was another autocorrect upsahi They were kicking people in the head stepping on their faces and shouting profanity throughout the robbery They made off with $15,000 patty drove the getaway van Now it says upsol again upsol was taken to a local hospital where her husband was a surgeon She died shortly afterwards The sla members returned to samsisco to live in hiding On august 22nd 1975 a man was walking through the parking lot of the international house of pancakes on sunset and orange In los angeles, I mean, I know that's our eye He noticed an unusual looking black bag in the parking lot He was about to kick the bag What a crazy almost I don't know why I guess you don't almost kick it. It's like a black man or baby. Whatever it is He started to kick the bag, but just before he did he saw in the opening And notice there was a big piece of galvanized pipe What the man had found was one of the most dangerous pipe bombs the bomb squad had ever seen The device was placed on the pavement beneath a car parked at a restaurant A triggering device had been attached to the underside of the car So when the car pulled away the trigger would fire but the contacts Which would have detonated the bomb Missed by a 16th of an inch. Wow Two officers more more classic sla words Just off Two officers were driving in their car when they heard the bomb call over their radio They had just eaten at iHop Shocking So they pulled their car over and discovered the other part of the triggering mechanism still attached to their car. Oh, shit The bomb squad described that as a very well built pipe bomb And they were used and they were used to bombings back then the bomb squad responded to calls almost daily in the 70s A detective told all police to check out their cars and another bomb was discovered within weeks detectives traced Where some of the bomb parts were purchased and Kathy was positively identified by a salesman You Is For months You've been working on this guy. We're a mole. I guess my lisp doesn't help change my appearance I mean my appearance Kathy was gone in the wind She was off Detectives in san francisco received tips that the heresies were often seen near a house in san francisco on september 19 1975 The epi saw Saw a pair dressed in running gear jogging near the suspect house We thought they might be the heresies. So we stopped them. There was no resistance Except that emily tried to run It's resistance the heresies then gave the location of patty an sla member wendy yishamira Who were living in the mission district? They were unarmed and easily apprehended during patty's booking when she was asked what her job was She stated urban gorilla The sla was finished Kathy was not arrested and she she had disappeared as did james kilgore The heresies served eight years in prison for the hearse kidnapping They were released in 1983 how long did hearse serve? For the hearse kidnapping They were released in 1983 emily learned computer programming in programming in prison and got a job working at mgm studios. Oh, wow The hearse why? What why would they hire her? It's fucking insane In the acronyms. They're big acronym people over there The hearse enlisted star criminal defender effley bailey to represent their daughter Dr. Margaret singer said she weighed 87 pounds and suffered a loss of 18 IQ points Calling her a low IQ low effect zombie patty skinny and boy. She's stupid guys Patty has lost a lot of weight and a lot of brain cells. Oh my god. She's so dumb now She is dumb. How dumb is she? She's like zombie dumb. She's so dumb. She's okay with this defense There were gaps in her memory regarding her pre trial her pre tanya life. She was smoking heavily and she had nightmares The defense team accentuated hearse fear and terror along with the abuses of her captivity and suggested She may have been drugged into a disordered and frightened state court appointed doctor and authority on brainwashing Lewis julian west stated after a 15 hour interview with hearse that she was a classic case of coercive persuasion or brainwashing Quote if she had reacted differently that would have been suspect the defense introduced photos showing other SLA members pointing their guns at patty during the armed robbery, but the jury didn't buy it On march 11 1976. They found patty hearse guilty of armed bank robbery and seven sir sentenced her to seven years in prison President jimmy carter commuted her sentence to 22 months served in freed harris eight months before she would have had a parole hearing She discovered she sorry she recovered full rights when president bill clinton granted her pardon On january 20th 2001 She got married and published a best-seeing selling memoir every secret thing in 1982 She settled with her family in connecticut and raised two daughters In 1999 the show america's most wanted aired a profile of kathy salaya. Oh boy It had been 25 years since the attempted bombing police in minnesota received a tip that a Woman named sarah james olson looked like kathy Also in the wife of a st. Paul docker and mother of three was arrested on the pipe bomb charge At that point the bank robbery case was reopened In 2001 she pleaded guilty to possession of explosives with the intent to murder She was told by prosecutors that she would be given eight years, but when she was sentenced the judge gave her two consecutive Terms of 10 years to life. Jesus patty hearse was granted a pardon by bill. Oh, I already did that police discovered new evidence from the bank robbery shooting Including lab reports that linked shell casings found at the crime scene with shotgun shells found in the apartment shared by the suspect So at this point it's 25 years later, but they still have all the shit. Yeah the technology is advanced right? They have much more ever. They basically had these guys. Yeah down there if they were fucked sarah jane olson aka kathy bill harris emily montogh formerly emily harris and michael borton were arrested James kill gore was still in hiding the forward charge with first-degree murder and faced life in prison Hearse was given immunity in exchange for testimony, but she never had to take the stand They took plea deals which gave them sentences between eight and six years on november 8th 2002 james kill gore who had been a fugitive since 1975 was arrested in south avrica and extravated to the united states to face federal explosives and passport fraud charges He was sentenced to 54 months in prison. He got away That's 54 months. Yeah, that's nothing They have all been released from prison as of 2009 the only SLA member still in prison is joe romero who was convicted of shooting marcus foster in oakland in the first action taken by the sla Hearse became prominent on the east coast society And charitable fundraising scene being particularly involved with a foundation for helping children suffering from AIDS on february 16th 2005 She-zu rocket won the toy category in the west minister kennel dog club show at madison square garden Oh god How are you that dog should not be allowed to compete? Okay Well, she had stockholm syndrome She was she was horribly she was horribly abused by them They raped her and they and they beat her and they they did brainwasher and they did and her parents did not handle it Well, she was fine. All right, the dog can win But then who I mean, I don't know. I'm not an expert on stockholm syndrome, but I think you can be brainwashed into thinking It's clearly a a thing like they've yeah, it is a thing. That's what she had. I mean, it's just that you don't usually see someone Then out with guns and doing all the shit for so long But you know, you're in once you're in it. You're in it. It's not like she was talking to other people No, she wasn't seeing other movements and anything that she saw at that point could be spun around to But they were fucking idiots. Are you sure? You sure? I mean, you can never get away with anything like that now because of all the surveillance and everything The tools they have to catch people but the 70s were fucking nuts. I look I guarantee you I could put together a better Revolution squad than the sla today Easily I mean, there was nothing nothing like it's almost like a documentary about a terrible band Oh my god, it is. Yeah, it is. Yeah, holy shit And they just they they were the and it's just like when you're in a band that's terrible, you know, like a lot, you know, you just Kind of like you're saying it's almost stockholme in a way where you're just kind of like Man, I'm telling you man. We got the talent and everyone's like we got the talent We got the talent man. We got the drive. We got the talent Well, well, I mean, hope you're happy. I'm pretty Very very interesting shit A bunch of idiots Um, yeah, great. All right. Well normal another normal normal story America Uh land of the idiots. Oh, we should uh, I'm I don't have a mic that I can fuck the audio up on anymore No, sorry. We're gonna do that. Oh, yeah, whatever. Do you want to fuck up the sound? Yeah Yeah, I'm just kidding