 I Someone or something is tickling is it for fun and this is not gonna come to tickling quad guys. Yeah You are Queen fakie of made-up town all hail Queen shit of Liesville a bunch of religious virgins Go to mingle and do what? Hey So there might be some noise in this one because we're garris apartment and There is a pool party happening next door where they're playing old 60s music and then there are gentlemen banging on the side of there's a bang party. There's a bang party outside And by bang party. We're not talking about the pool party. Yeah, no, but no the pool party didn't just turn in October 26th 1858 that might be a little loud. How long do you think that's gonna go on? Okay, so we have moved We are away from the room where they were banging on the window Thanks, bro, holy shit. Oh, you mean those they were looking at my pants. Oh, no, those are grapefruits first time looking at fruit so I already did the date Okay, you know what? I'm gonna get a chair and get a little further away. No, no, no, you sit right now I don't want that. No, this podcast is a disaster Now I feel you're happy with yourself. Yep, very chuffed Your homophobia. Excuse me Tom Denison was born in Delhi, Iowa Delhi nice. He was the third of eight children of Irish Irish immigrants John and Anna Denison in 1860 the Denison's moved to a farm in Dakota County, Nebraska Okay, the elder denison remained there the rest of his life during that time He took an active part in the life of his community Owning a modest but successful farm and serving in several minor elective posts. Well, thank you for the story, Dave It was great to have you around listening one of our best. Yep Tom left home at the age of 15 and returned to Iowa Tom spent six years as a farm laborer in Manona and Mills counties. Okay, there he wants one a contest For the county corn husking championship What does that even mean that what is it? It's just removing the pieces of corn or no That's just taking the husk off talking more husk off and get that makes sense why they call it that yeah, it's cleaning the corn the fast It's right in the name corn husking. You don't need to look at me like that in nine in 1879 Denison left Iowa and sought adventure farther west. He worked at a blacksmithing Establishment in Kansas He went prospecting in Colorado and railroading in New Mexico while living at the Kokomo, Colorado mining camp he shot and And wounded a man For any particular reason couldn't find out Jesus and the guy deserved it It sounds like you're a little gung-ho. He then moved to Leadville and became a floor walker at the Texas Okay Yeah, that's a weird. All right, so we know what corn husking is What is this floor walking? It was the town's largest and most notorious gambling hall. Oh, okay So floor walking would be kind of just like managing the floor a little bit keeping an eye on the floor Yeah, making sure no one's doing like a pit boss the business right Yeah, but shittier. Yeah shittier much shittier During this period Denison showed a knack for taking advantage of business opportunities and within a short time rose from Bouncer to owner of a quarter interest in the Texas He then sold it using his profits to purchase part ownership in Leadville's opera house Next he started the old arcade in Denver Which would be the first of a chain of gambling houses in the Rocky Mountain area in 19 in 1892 at the age of 34. He settled in Omaha Okay Denison was an imposing figure six feet tall and 200 pounds Always immaculately dressed and usually wearing large flawless diamonds. Whoa, there's a that's interesting. He's a pimp Yeah, I died the diamond look really just screams. I saw pussy Straight up pimp. Yeah photographs of Denison show a man with cold penetrating eyes Who often had a rise smile playing at the corners of his mouth? He had a deep voice with a slight speech impediment that only surfaced when he was tense That's interesting. I mean, yeah, that's great, right to just be like, yeah I kind of don't like the way that guy's looking at me. Excuse me for a second Excuse me, sir. If there's some sort of problem you have with me if there's something you want to say to me, sir Because you keep looking at me a little funny. I'm just wondering what your deal is I told you he'd do it if you look at anyway, sorry about that. I didn't mean to lose my cool. It's just that fucking asshole What's the problem with the guy? I don't like the way that that guy looks at me Omaha had recently been going through an economic boom and was on the was was the one of the new leading agricultural and meatpacking towns in the Midwest mm-hmm But most importantly for Tom the city had a seamy side This activity was centered in the third ward and was responsible for the city being called the wickedest sitting in the United States Jesus and a wide open town Oh boy The third ward gained notoriety through its saloons gambling dens street games and brothels drifters swindlers gamblers prostitutes and criminals Compromised a significant segment of its population the police with the exception of a rare obligatory crackdown generally ignored the district's activities City fathers looked upon the area as a necessary evil sounds like peeky blinders so far I haven't seen that well you're hearing about it a little bit. I grow. Yeah, just an area where it just seems lawless and Yeah, you can do whatever the fuck you want as goes the third ward So goes the city was the saying the ward gave substantial majority to candidates and elections candidates from other precincts of the city could rarely match the votes from the third ward Denison only needed to further so consolidate and Organize the ward and its activities under his control to make himself supreme and that's what he quickly did Okay, a power vacuum had recently been created when the big four Charles Bivens Here I'm Kennedy Charles white and Jack Morrison who had run the third ward for years suddenly disappeared after a police crackdown Okay, Denison was there to fill the void Boy diamond Denison in November of 19. It's in November of 1892 Denison established a gambling house in an alley near 14th and Dodge from which he ran a policy game an Illegal form of lottery popular among low-income classes and within a few years He and his brother John had opened branch shops in South Omaha and across the state line East Omaha These three dens formed the most successful enterprises of their kind in the city during this period Denison Formed connections through silent partnerships with other so saloon casinos Cliff Coles was brought by Billy in Nestle house and was And it was renamed Budweiser. Whoa Jesus a bar named Cliff Coles, which is a good name for a bar Yeah, and he renamed it Budweiser. Well, I mean in retrospect. It was a brilliant name for a bar You know the fucking deal would be crazy if it was before Budweiser. Yeah, that'd be interesting Budweiser served as Denison's headquarters by the early 1900s Denison had established his ward machine the key lieutenant Billy nestle house Became the business brains of the organization and coordinated various vice activities from the Budweiser Yeah, Denison recognizing the importance of minority support Made sure these groups had representatives within the machine For instance, he financed a black man to help him purchase a brothel with Denison's help He got police protection and ran that district if there were ever any disagreements Denison would replace The black man with another to run the district Hmm, so he just sounds so he gets them all in and they vote the way he wants Yeah, it's all good to go Jack Bloomfield ran the area for many years as Denison's machine rose in power so did the amount of vice and Newspapers began to notice among the rogues frequently reported to be in the city Were the John C. Maybray gang a group of Iowa swindlers Patrick Crow a trainwatt robber and kidnapper and fainting Bertha Lebke His gambit was swooning in front of her unsuspecting victims and then picking their pockets when they came to her aid I mean that one has got to get old fast I saw you fain yesterday bitch. I Saw you fain yesterday Bertha between 1905 and 1915 Omaha the greatest increase in drinking establishments of any city in the nation All right, fuck yeah, I'd 1910 there an estimated 100 brothels and 2500 prostitutes in the city 2000 prostitutes. Yeah, there's not that many people there. There's like a hundred just so many whores That's and you know what else it like I don't want to be gross go ahead, but they're not You know clean it's the pullout method if anything in this time, right? There's not like maybe did have What did they put like lamb skin on the fucking I don't know if they're commons at that point, but yeah It's not it's not a good. I'm not saying like going to horse now is a great option It's not a good time to put your penis in a random vagina And yours at a good time to have a random penis in your vagina. Yeah, that's either way. Yeah, you're gonna end up with syphilis Yeah, oh god, and then your nose will fall off. Welcome to reality It was estimated the yearly average income from the Brothels was 17 million seven hundred and sixty thousand dollars. I mean we've just always loved to fuck It just and in the feet doesn't matter we'll run out of water. Yeah, the one thing will be consistent We're looking to fuck. Yeah, we're a fuck people. We're fuck. We like to fuck on The same day in 1914 that a grand jury reported finding no examples of harlotry in the city a street rocker was quoted by the Daily News Saying it's a poor girl on the street who can't make at least five dollars a night in Omaha So it's a fuck town So you may not keep patient if you go there is to fuck. Yeah, okay Denison knew we couldn't have the police in a few city officials in his pocket He he couldn't just have a few police and a few city officials in his and diamonds to make this work Yeah He needed the political machine He would throw support behind any candidate from either party that would serve his needs most importantly He formed a bond with Edward Rose water and his newspaper the Omaha B Rosa water was a Bohemian immigrant who had built a reputation as a man who would fight rival editors both physically and verbally That's a fun order to Rose water had gained control of a large faction of the local Republican Party in 1906 Rose water died and Rose water's son and successor Victor inherited a strong role in Republican politics and continued the B policy of Rarely mentioning Dennis's name in print while going after his enemies Hmm, but the Democratic candidates backed by the World Herald newspaper and the news were succeeding as they railed against city corruption Advice one would have thought Dennis in was losing control, but he was quietly working behind the scenes John Denison his brother was appointed a sidewalk inspector and well this looks good Excuse me. I'm gonna go home off the sidewalk. Excuse me. Are you walking? Eight years later his brother Pat took the coveted post of Street Department Foreman Hey, I've been watching you sidewalk guy. Holy shit the dentists have controlled the sidewalk in the street Oh boy, I don't know which way anywhere you walk you're walking in Denison territory What's this what's his town coming to? Next Pat's son became a police officer and Billy in Nestle house is a stepbrother a city commissioner Oh boy, then Lewis Burmeister a third-war saloon keeper was selected president of the city council the following year Johnny Lynch Dennis's most important ally next to Nestle house was elected to the county commission and shortly after became a chairman Lynch's election was important to Dennis and because it gave him control over juries Suddenly no one was being convicted Good so that's I mean this is peeky blinders In 1906 James Cowboy Jim Dalman was elected mayor Well a mayor cowboy. Yeah, he had a cowboy hat and the horse the whole thing. He's a cowboy I mean, I'm noticing a lot of commonalities between then and now In regard to saloons gambling and prostitution the mayor adopted a hands-off policy Which is the best we need to get government out of government. You're like, you dumb motherfucker The fuck did you run for then to get no power? Everything ran smoothly the machine rolled on and Dennis and brought in the money until 1918 when it all fell apart first in 1916 Nebraska passed a state constitutional amendment allowing for prohibition Next the state passed an election law making it much more difficult to stuff ballot boxes Good order there, too. And finally the military barred all servicemen from the Third Ward. Wow. Yeah, that's fucked up That's not good for business Not good for fuck business and that's not good for the military guys. It's no good lord Yeah, all all Jim Wano was a little syphilis just a little. Yeah, you just want to dip his fucking You know just dipping the sif. You want just do a sift dip Jesus. I'm sifted horrible. What in the 1918 election? Dennis and lost five of the seven City commissioners as well as mayor Dalman his political power was wiped out overnight Turns out the people at Omaha wanted reform and retired of the scandals in County government the corrupt police department and the sanctioning of ridiculous city contracts A new era was starting for Omaha Edward P. Smith a successful lawyer was chosen to be new mayor John ringer was selected police commissioner and was given the task of cleansing the police department and putting a tight rain on the city's vise Ringer was a radical who saw his election as a moral crusade It's so funny when a radical is someone who's just gonna do the thing that's things that are legal Like it's just you know, I mean when someone's like this guy's a real radical. All right, no prostitution. He doesn't want corruption No murder in the people's he's kind of a lunatic Now without power Dennis and looked around at the state of Omaha and the country to fix his problem Omaha had changed significantly since 1900 the World War one era created a demand for labor in America's industrial regions beyond the south Oh time to move time to company move Immigration was drastically curtailed during the war and close to five million Americans enlisted in the army There are huge job vacancies a massive labor shortage was at hand So northern factories and industries Actively recruited southern african-american laborers often enticing them to move north by offering to pay their train fare News of the jobs available in northern cities circulated via mouth and through african-american newspapers Omaha itself had a labor shortage with upwards of 20,000 Omaha's enlisted during World War one African Americans wanted to escape the nightmare of sharecropping and Jim Crow laws in favor of the urban north 450,000 blacks migrated north during what came to be called the great migration Okay Omaha's african-american population changed dramatically the railroads and packing plants offered a wide range of unskilled job opportunities and economic prospects from 1910 and 1920 Omaha's black population more than doubled to 10,315 of a total population of 191,000 wow at the same time many unions were going on strike because wages were so horrible many african-americans Coming in on trains had no idea they were being shipped to take others jobs Blacks quickly learned the exact thing they escaped from was being recreated in places like Omaha by their very presence It's got to be a great situation. Yeah, just a great time to be black. It's a great time This is probably the best time to be black a lot of good times. I mean a lot of great lot of great times I think that's this is what the song good vibrations is about by the beach boys. Yeah, no exactly Now soldiers began returning from the warfront They found black communities had grown throughout northern cities often in areas that had been inhabited once by whites So tell me how they calmly handled this predicament A lot of handshaking a lot of talks. Yeah, look at the guy in the eyes and go and let's sit down and talk about Why don't we talk about this over a nice cold, but that's right. Yeah, right Economic resentment built up as job availability Became scarce for returning veterans many of whom resent in african-americans who occupied formerly white-held jobs And to top it off the unions wouldn't take black members So black workers would just say fuck it and take the jobs. They otherwise may have passed on Wait, what's the union time? The unions wouldn't take black members So that but then they would oh so then it left them fewer opportunities You're saying so they had like then they have no choice but to be scabs, right? Right? Yeah Yeah, well, you're yeah, you shouldn't even be called a scab. No at that point. You're just a guy human an optionless human Optionless human Hey, you're one of them optionless human guys. I can tell by your skin color. Yes. Thank you for finally calling us that Good lord So you got like no options. Although back then being called a scab for black people was probably like thank you Well, that's a nice word. Finally usually get uh, what a relief You have a packers clock Yeah, yeah, a bay packers clock like you're five Yeah, listen, I haven't tattooed on my body too. What do you want from me? The year I like the green bay packers I get it. I get it. It's a great clock. Thank you. The year of the lynchings was upon us That's not a good start. What do you mean? That's a terrible start to a sentence. Good. There's gonna be a great paragraph No, lynchings killed 78 black people in 1919 that increased from 48 in 1918 Even worse lynchings Yeah, it's almost doubled But it's just crazy. Yeah Even worse the lynchings had a carnival-esque atmosphere Dave what's up Is that a weird word to Yeah, put with lynchings. Yeah Popcorn get your popcorn. Cirque de Soleil presents I can't see the black guy swinging. Oh, come on. My kid has never seen this before You're getting all over his taffy Let my boy watch the black man hang in the south violent mobs of hundreds if not thousands gathered with advanced notice of lynchings That were often advertised in their local newspaper Wait White people or black people white people would get would gather in large crowds because the lynching would be advertised in the newspaper huge huge show This is not I will say this is not did you not know that we advertised lynchings in newspapers? I didn't I guess I didn't realize it was like, um A carnival? Yeah. Yeah. I didn't realize the lynchings coming at a time. I didn't realize it was the gladiator of uh Uh lynchings near Ellisville, Mississippi the lynching and burning of a suspected black rapist John Hartfield was advertised by the new Orleans states With a headline that read 3000 will burn negro Three that was the headline that means like 3000 people will be there to watch him burn. Yeah Boy, this is uh, do you want some do you want some of that jameson? How do you handle this? I just a point a tiny good tiny point out that america is a really great place terrible Thousands of people arrived To witness the spectacle mobs assembled and attacked african-americans throughout that summer without fear of government repisal mobs feared little recourse for their actions and gladly posed For lynching pictures This lack of punishment tag me led to more attacks and finally riots selfie. I'm taking a selfie with the Dead guy. There we go. This is known as the red summer in most Because it was hot blood figured In most instances white attacked blacks in some cases blacks fought back The first riot broke out in charleston, south carolina on may the 10th It was begun by sailors in the u.s. Navy three black men were killed then smaller riots broke out in may in celeste Georgia putnam county, georgia, monocito mississippi in june new london, canendicate Memphis, tennessee and aplos mariland and make in mississippi then in july brisbee, arizona Where white police attacked the buffalo soldiers of the 10th cavalry Then in north vrginia a white mob attacked a homecoming celebration for african-americans veterans of world war one i mean like Yeah, i mean, how do you in that time at least not say thank you well like how like how do you I mean, it's horrible regardless. Yeah, but how does the how do you How do you bridge that gap mentally for like It's bewildering because they were marching through town in a parade and they were like you can't march Eat black bastards can't march through our town I've always said i'm down for beating the shit out of people having a parade but that is not race related that is just literally Anybody who thinks that's a good call well, maybe that's what it was. Maybe they just didn't like parades. I don't think that was the case There were eight more riots in july before they hit washington dc there blacks fought back because Watching people watching the watching police refused to intervene The rioting went on for four days a week later was the worst of all in chicago the riots there lasted 13 days Jesus the red summer hit 25 cities in 1919 And tom denison was listening to the news from around the country And he saw the change that was occurring in Omaha and he went to work Using his friend. I don't like what that means. What do you mean that he went to work? Using his friend rosewater in the Omaha B. The B was a very bad newspaper that practiced yellow journalism Bias news using language and tone intended to arouse passions fox knows The Omaha B newspaper published a series of sensational stories of racial incidents from late june until early september Throughout its summer riots coverage the B accentuated the increasing black and white casualties around the country In early june an article about a young white girl in council bluffs who said she was robbed Throttled and assaulted by a black male Next the B reported a woman was attacked by an unidentified unidentified man suspected as either being a negro or mexican Uh, uh, it's hard to I mean that that is that's how you know you're racist. It's it's one of them I mean the original the original Report said it's one of them. How can you not tell? Well, they're brown Brown I was in Miami once and I was there for hip-hop weekend and this hip-hop weekend It's a great weekend to be there. It's a crazy weekend to be there And it was like late at night and this black chick was walking down the street and she put her arm around me And she goes I need to find a fine-ass mexican dude like this guy and I was like ma'am you are shit I was like you you drank yourself to the point where I look mexican I was like Fucking irish Reports of alleged assaults against white women by black men dominated the bees headlines creating the perception that violence Was a relentless problem in Omaha In mid august a white mob almost apprehended a man named johnny moore Suspected of assaulting four white girls between the age of nine and 14 upon word of moore's capture a mob wielding corn knives And firearms attempted to detain the prisoner themselves before detectives whisked him away The bee reporter on august 17th another story of an unidentified one armed negro who restrained an assault at a 12 year old girl named Anna glasman Okay By the end of the month the bee reported yet another incident where a black man named robert king a recent immigrant from Arkansas was alleged to have assaulted a white woman and was nearly lynched by a mob before police officers arrived With growing violence the bee then began to place blame squarely on mayor smith and the Omaha police forces There we go of african-americans in Omaha. There we go. Huh? There we go At least it's about what's right Getting rid of that goddamn goody to share yeah, yeah, yeah Focus on what matters getting prostitution back to this area From june 7th to september 27th the Omaha bee reported 21 alleged attacks by black men upon white women The bee incessantly reported that african-americans were either suspected or arrested for the alleged crimes When police and prosecutors could not convict any of those arrested Some Omaha citizens became even more critical of the police department in mayor smith because none of them had done it Yeah, that's why they couldn't convict them. Yeah, of course The bee printed editorials on the front page assailing police commissioner ringing for ringer for practically practicing tyranny and abuse And complained that a carnival of crime is being visited upon the city with assaults robbery and violence the consequences of incompetent police Then came september 25th 1919 Milton Hoffman and agus lobeck Were assaulted at bankcroft street and scenic avenue as they were walking home after a late movie My guess is they're white. Really? Yeah, I think you are correct They said they're assailant rob them at gunpoint taking Hoffman's watch money and billfold plus a ruby ring from agnes He ordered Hoffman to move several steps away then dragged 19 year old lobeck by her hair into a nearby ravine and raped her Well, okay. Sorry not to jump in but then this white guy is a fucking little bitch I I in this in this story It's a it's a weird thing to figure out how someone can do physically. I mean, you're oh shit agnes. That sucks Sorry about your ruby ring. Yeah, I'm just gonna hang here. All right. Oh boy girl. I hope it's fast agnes. I'll be here Jesus christ On friday the 26th and oh ma be headline read black beast first stick up couple I mean, it sounds like the bee needs to go to headline school black beast. I mean, that's awful But it's all what's the rest of it First stick up couple I don't even know what that means. Yeah, we time it meant something. It doesn't make sense to me. Yeah I mean, maybe he was the first black man to stick up a couple The most daring attack on a white woman ever perpetrated in Omaha occurred one block south of bank off street near scenic avenue in Gibson last night The article states that the black beast had assaulted the white girl Please search two hours joined by 400 armed men under leadership of James Lobeck agnes's brother and frank rom a neighbor told searchers of a quote suspicious negro living in a house At 2 4 1 8 south 5th street isn't any negro in a house suspicious to people at this time. I think that's what they're saying Yeah, so they they're looking for a black just means negro. They're looking for a black person and someone goes I know where a black person lives. Yeah a suspicious one Well, of course, he's suspicious. He's black. Well, this suspicious black man was living with a white woman virginia jones and another black man See, so that's where we know where the suspicion came in. Yeah. Oh that right. Yeah, breaking the rules. Yeah. Well, he's clearly hypnotized a whitey naughty negro Um rom and four of his men found 41 year old william brown at the house and held him with a shotgun arriving on the scene Police found brown hiding under his bed. They took him to lobeck's home nearby Bringing with them clothes found in brown's room. So I just want to I just don't break this down. So There's a guy just living in a house with a white woman and people are searching for a black guy So someone says hey, I know where a black guy lives with a white lady and clearly that guy's Problem and then they go to the house and they capture the guy And then they take him to the woman's house who said she was raped and they bring his clothes From the closet they bring his clothes. Yeah Why Lobeck and hoffman identified brown as their assailant agnes also identified the clothing including a white felt hat that had been worn By a man seen in the gibson neighborhood So it's not a hat That he was wearing when he committed the crime. It's a hat that a black guy was seen wearing Around the neighborhood also when when when your racism is so impenetrable What is the point of identifying like The you're it's inherent that they all are the same to you. Yeah, you've already said that they all basically look the same Yeah, what is the point? I mean any dude you bring there just gonna be like that was him. He's black and breathing. That's the one He's got a face. I'd recognize him anywhere with those two hands and shoes eyes is brown eyes He's blinking just like the man who is sale who assaulted me black hair. I told you black hair Hoffman identified brown quote with not the least bit of doubt But what he is the negro who held him at gunpoint while he raped agnes later However, agnes stated that her attacker was black, but quote. I can't say whether he is the man or not It's got to be a lot of pressure too. I'm not even like take the side of a I mean, obviously it's terrible what happened to her if that's actually what happened to her but To you know to have like nine foaming white dudes at your house with a black dude with clothes Just like with hard-ons for the conviction. Yeah, you know, I'm sure at that point you're You know, you're like, well, yeah exactly, you know, it's a weird lineup Yeah, that guy at my living room out of all the guys here the nine white guys and the one black guy He's the closest man. We know you were just traumatized by a rape But we're gonna bring your rapist into your house. So that's comfortable and smart. It is your rapist Hey, welcome back to is this your rapist if I say he is will you stop bringing rapists into my house? I can't make any promises, ma'am But no, but the large crowd of some 250 men and women had gathered around the house shouting that brown should be lynched They struggled with the police and twice succeeded in putting a rope around brown's neck The standoff lasted for an hour despite slashing of tires and beatings The police took brown first to the new douglas county courthouse jail There police chief of police Marshall eberstein said he did not know if brown was guilty and that further investigation was necessary Like a police officer. So think of how fucked up a time It is when black people are dying to go to the prison with the cops Like when that was this is the time that was the best option This is the time when black people were like, please take me to the prison. Oh my god I'm going to the prison. Oh the police. You're the only people I can turn to right now The level-headed cops when he was taken to the county jail brown said he was working as a coal hustler Which meant he would carry coal from trucks to sellers and limping because of rheumatism A physical examination showed brown was quote too twisted by rheumatism to assault anyone An Omaha world reporter interviewed brown in jail and quote confirmed by his observation the man's crippled condition His chronic rheumatism meant brown would be unable to overpower low back and Hoffman concluded Jim mckey a lincoln journal writer Well, yeah, I'm it's not surprising. I still stand by the fact that agnes should not have gone out with such a pussy also Ironically Hoffman. Oh the pussy was also he broke a leg when he was a kid and it healed incorrectly So I had a limp. So in all the newspaper reports they referred to him as the cripple Hoffman the cripple Meanwhile the dude with the rheumatisms in jail. Excuse me. Who's the who's the cripple storyline in this? Ironically Hoffman was repeatedly mentioned as the cripple. He denied that description saying he had a disability because of his broken leg that never meant it Come on. I'm not the cripple. Yeah About 2 p.m. Focus on the right things there pal That's 2 p.m. On September 28th Hoffman got about 200 mostly young people at bankcroft school to follow him to the courthouse and try to seize brown Detective John Dunne told the marchers to haul but they ignored him their numbers increasing as they passed by 4 p.m Several hundred people had gathered at the south side of the courthouse with 30 policemen cordoning off the building Thinking there was really no threat a police captain sent home 50 officers who have been summoned to police headquarters as a reserve And this year's shit head of the year award goes to What a fucking idiot. Hey, what are you guys doing here? Captain call this down. No, we're good No, even though there's 200 people out there in a lynch mob. We're calling it a slow sunday Why don't you guys call it? Huh get the fuck out of here. Yeah, come on. You don't need to work today. You know You still need to guys the bags under your eyes. Please come on get some sleep gentlemen. Come on. This will be fine We got this is like 30 of us and 500 of them. All right. Do the math. Don't do that math. Take care Inside chief everstein called the while so while that guy is sending him home chief everstein called the council bluffs, Iowa police chief JC jensen for assistance jensen replied he had no right to send his men out of the state They then asked the Lancaster county home guard for help, but we're told the riot would be over before they could respond I mean that is the that is like the i'm washing my hair excuse for a date You got you know, you're getting the fucking run around when you hear that Yeah, we're making a tuna casserole over here You know we can't find our shoes We so I don't know how we can do it. You know what our shirts are in the wash And our shoes aren't shiny. God So just you know what and i'm thinking by the time we get down there after the shirts get out of the wash and we dry them And blobby trying to try and it's gonna be over. I mean most riots go for an hour 45 Where was the last place we saw our shoes if we could figure that out? We're gonna get back to you I'll tell you what we're exhausted. Good luck with all that Well, Lieutenant Colonel Jacob west at fort Omaha received a report that a riot was underway He told Omaha's police chief that Federal troops could not get involved unless ordered by the war department The military it's a good thing. There's not a lot of levels and hoops to go through. This is when it's there's just paperwork Yeah, it's just I mean, it's literally like everyone's like, let me call headquarters You know, it's uh, I get that you guys are getting attacked by a giant mob But I got I got stuff to get signed. Let me float it up the chain. I'm gonna talk to some fellas Please hold the military chain of command had to be initiated delaying action while communication passed from secretary of war Newton d baker Down to the fort's commanding officer Within an hour, police were confronted by some five four to five thousand angry people throwing rocks at the courthouse four to five thousand. Yeah Dude, if you're the if you're if you're in the cell, I mean Yeah I would you would probably want to fucking just hang yourself just to not give them the satisfaction But play the reality, which is that you're pretty fucked. You're pretty fucked The north doors gave way and the police chased the mob from the building several times They attacked the police a little after 5 p.m. One officer was pushed through a plate glass door Two others became targets when they drew their clubs fire hoses were turned on the mob with no effect Stones and bricks broke almost every window on the south side of the courthouse The police tried to discourage the assault by firing their revolvers down elevator shafts I feel like that's not good police work. Were there unless there's hundreds of people in the elevator shafts. That's useless The elevators aren't attacking anyone. I well, I think I think The idea is that they were trying to make it sound like they were shooting out and the only place they could shoot without hitting Something was down in the elevator shaft really just shows you the quote like the valid like just the There's a disparity between the value of life of a white person and a black person It in order to dissuade the white people from murdering the black guy. They'll create the illusion of violence Meanwhile, they're going to fucking hang this man. Yeah, if he's lucky. Yeah The shots only made the crowd angrier. Well, that's a crazy effect That's shocking didn't see them They seem pissed it seems it seems like they'd be reasonable and go home with that boy or at least that you don't get more angrier Instead the crowd battered Wait, so mayor Smith and police chief ever seen arrived and entered the building to restore order The crowd then battered down a door and a 16 year old boy on a horse William Francis appeared with several men hanging on to the horse's tail As he rode through the entryway I mean that's just awesome. Yeah Now there's a guy riding a horse into a building on his tail. He's 16. He's not even surf. I mean he's not even on the varsity football Yeah, he's scheme. He's JV. Yeah And halfway through his life With the courthouse surrounded and breached police chief Marshall ever seen climbed to a second story window To speak to the mob. He got out on the windowsill And the crowd began cheering and shouting and throwing rocks and ever seen was forced to retreat Next city commissioner Harry B. Zimman Tried to talk to the growing mob only to be drowned out by shouts of Lynch the damn Jew Was that person confused why they were there I think ever seen now they're going after the Jew Well, look I mean you got a building surrounding you might as well kill minorities That's it. Nothing will make you like ditch the like don't kill this black man faster than like and the Jew too. You're like, you know what actually Have at him. Let's bring the black guy out here. Let's get him out here now that I'm thinking about it I kind of see their side a little bit more now that I'm thinking about it Zim and suffered a few blows from rocks before being helped inside by friends outside mechanic John Thomas Lotted the protection of white women. He lauded the protection of what do you mean? If we was saying that, you know, it's great that Women white women should be protected and this is what we're doing here. We're taking care of white women Man this mob. This just sounds like a very chaotic mob. Oh, it's an idiot party. This is a giant idiot party I mean for someone to just in the middle of it just be like, you know, it's great. We're defending women You know, it's great. We're defending women. It's just like dude, not now. That's not bottom line right now. We're all a little fired up Um Let's see the mob broke through the police barrier and officers caps badges and revolvers were taken from them Most of the police were treated inside the building by 7 p.m. Joining sheriff Clark and his half dozen deputies Half dozen. Yeah Pon shops and the Walter G. Clark and Townsend gun company were broken into for revolvers and rifles By 8 p.m. The mob had begun firing on the courthouse with guns Mayor Smith came out of the east doors on 17th street to confront the mob He asked them to forget the prisoner and allow the firemen to put out flames that were beginning As they were starting to set the building off good more emergencies it is The cause is terrible. But it is it does seem like All the shit that we get fucked with today You'd think we would be able to have some sort of reaction like this I know and now we don't do anything but now we don't do shit now We're just so apathetic. Yeah, and here it is just to kill a black guy. You've galvanized 10 000 people So you're saying that the that the heartening part of this story if you dig deep enough Care if you dig deep enough what you can say is that people united for a cause Sadly in this circumstance, it's Disgusting horrific but in this day and age Like I could never like literally if we got rid of chicken fries is the only way that I could see like people Acting like this like the you know the shit that we give a fuck about now It's just you would to see this what it would just what what would it take? Oh, now you're right. Yeah Yeah Anyway So the mayor is outside talking to the people He was then hit with a baseball bat. Oh And attacked by the mob No, I will not give up the man smith said i'm going to enforce the law even with my own life The crowd took his words to heart shouting hang him string him up With a new surround his neck the mayor was dragged to the 16th street traffic signal What a rope was thrown the rope was thrown over a bar and tightened around smith's neck Then a man named russell norgaard saved the mayor's life by removing the rope police Reinforcements arrived with drawn pistols. They took the unconscious mayor to ford hospital I'll bet you that mayor fucking is switching positions a little bit. Yeah, do whatever You don't have to get with the black eye stuff you guys were talking about starting to sink in The mob rushed back, but you kind of be fucking impressed with the fucking white guy in this day Yeah, he gives up his life to save a dude. Totally. I I mean very I mean and then we have a hero Well, and you all like I think we've even talked about this before but like it's so hard to know like You know how much of just the culture forms your mind like to be an independent thinker Not even that this guy is doing it I mean, I'm sure he would be fine to hang this dude if he was proven wrong But the idea that you could actually like Take a stance like that really is yeah, that's that's some fucking backbone. That is The mob rushed back to the courthouse and the riot escalated as gasoline was thrown into the building Spreading flames forced the police to retreat to the second floor Firemen fought firemen bought hose brought hoses which the crowd quickly hacked to pieces What's good is when there's a fire and you're going upstairs. I mean, that's the one way to go. Yeah Riders took the firemen's ladders and used them to enter the courthouse's broken second-story windows Sweet good like I mean literally if you're in the building you have to be like it was a bad thing the fire department came It was bad I get it guys. I gave you had a good idea in mind But shit is so fucked when you wish the fire department never showed up to your fire While leading a charge up the stairs to reach brown 16 year old Lewis young was shot and killed Policemen and sheriff's deputies took to the fourth floor with flames and angry men below them Someone shout him shouted let no one leave Oh boy the mob station armed men at every exit door Sheriff Clark led brown and is 121 fellow prisoners to the roof But bullets fought that's the other thing all the other prisoners are like what the fuck Hey, I'm getting out tomorrow. It was jaywalking you guys guys. I'm sleeping one off I'm getting a little too drunk for this shit. I shouldn't drink all that with alcohol So 121 prisoners are on the roof and then bullets were fired from nearby buildings and they had to run back down the stairs Clark convinced the rioters on the stairs to allow female prisoners to leave Officers and deputies began telephoning their wives with their final words Sorry, that is a sentimental part It is funny to think of the moment When you're negotiating with these guys for them to actually have a moment to be like Ah, uh, uh, who should let the women let the women go let the women go Yeah, ladies ladies are cool. Lady. What about the black lady? It's ladies night. It's ladies night Those aren't ladies black ladies aren't ladies just the ladies you guys got the flyers right? It's ladies night ladies night Okay girls, it's coming down. You coming out of the lynching tonight. It's a ladies night And then at the bottom of there there's almost like a bouncer to the outside Who's like yeah, but two more have to come in before you can go out ladies. Sorry Sorry about that. Just doing a head counting Okay, uh, so uh, so the cops are calling their wives and saying goodbye Deputy clerk of the court, Assel Steer, realizing that several large record books were threatened by the fire Made his way through an entrance and went to his office Where he carried several district record books to a vault and safety He along the way he found three wounded police officers And he took them into the vault and then someone slammed the door behind them. Oh Fuck trapped in the blazing building. What the four men broke through a wall and escaped while being shot at bad vault That's fucking amazing amazing. Not a good vault. Not a good vault. It's just a door and we'll use the side Hey, you know what? Let's put a big vault a door on this closet. Yeah. Yeah 10 officers in courtroom one on the fourth floor were threatened by the flames But their call for help was refused with calls of let them burn bring the nigger down with you and we'll hand you a ladder From the west side of the building three slips of paper floated down Scrawl on one of them was come to the fourth floor of the building and we will hand the nigger over to you Oh my god ladders were placed against the west side of the burning courthouse and two men One with a rope and the other carrying a shotgun rushed up the ladder to the second floor from there They performed an aerobatic climb to reach brown and his defenders two floors up but By now it was dark And the automobile headlights illuminated the window ledges As they climbed so uh shouts and shots came from the building south side They yelled brown was in the hands of his executioners Sheriff Clark claimed he surrendered brown to save the lives of the police officers and deputies Fearing they would be killed if the struggle continued. He's right. He is right. He is right, but it's still fucked It's the most horrific horrific decision You can make you have to give up an innocent guy. Yeah, so that other innocent people can live Because there's insane people outside. Yeah Inside will brown moaned to sheriff mike clark. I am innocent. I never did it my god. I am innocent By the way, I mean that that's the elephant in the room that probably not I've almost forgotten about at this point Is that this guy didn't even do shit didn't do anything. He was just in a house. He's just a guy. He had a white roommate. He had a white roommate White roommate Yeah White roommate red flag Uh, the day after the riot yukes were said he read the note that urged others to come to the fourth floor and get the nigger With two friends. He followed the instructions and somebody handed brown over to 30 men who had come up the stairs They tied a rope around his neck and dragged him to the south side of the building. He was beaten Into unconsciousness his clothes were torn off by the time he reached the building's doors Bloody he was taken down the stairs and handed over to the waiting horde to hang him Several men pulled brown's body into the air as the crowd cheered there. He died Swinging by the traffic sign the swaying body then became a target for gunfire. He was riddled with bullets Lowered after 20 minutes brown brown's remains were tied to the end of a police car that the mob had seized and dragged To the 17th and dodge streets there. He was burned with fuel From the red signal lanterns used for street repair How you doing? Not good Brown's tried remains were then dragged behind the automobile through downtown streets Nebraska born actor Henry Fonda was 14 years old when the lynching happened His father owned a printing plant across the street from the courthouse Henry Fonda watched the riot from the second floor window of his father's shop Quote it was the most horrendous sight I'd ever seen we locked the plant went downstairs and drove home in silence My hands were wet and there were tears in my eyes. All I could think of was that young black man dangling from the end of the rope Estimates of the crowd vary from 5,000 to 20,000 as it dwindled u.s. troops began Finally arriving in response to request for assistance. Oh good good Colonel west ordered two companies to the courthouse to restore order and if sent a third company To the black district as a precaution while the troops marched brown was being lynched burned and his body dragged around The city's downtown streets the next day special trains brought reinforcements from army camps in iowa, kansas, south dakota Uh, eventually 1600 troops were on duty in Omaha the court you want to talk about the packer clock anymore Can I can I just say that when people talk about horrible ice horrible isis? Yeah, uh, this is not that long ago. Yeah, just so everybody knows Well that I mean honestly that the problem is that yeah, exactly. There's no perspective. No perspective I mean if you like I always think that about Like the middle east like it's terrible when somebody's killed it's terrible when anything like this happens But you also have to think that like we there's like a generation of babies in iraq who have like Enormous heads because of us so and we and we like in this period Until 1930 we killed thousands of black people. Yeah, and we really don't We really just have no interest in reopening it. It's not taught in the history. Yeah, right? It's fucking disgusting And you would think like and it just like it really is true that like the I guess the problem with racism in this country is that It it is it's like a drinking problem in a relationship where you just don't want to talk You don't want to rock the boat. Yeah, because you don't want to like not live together anymore So you just don't talk about the drinking. Yeah, but really what you need is the therapy to be like, holy shit We've got a lot of problems here purge them And then you can move forward because if you think about the shit with the cops now or even the reaction of the cops now It's the same sentiment different times. We're still we're still killing black people just legally. Yeah, which is the fucking Yeah, the courthouse was in ruins completed in 1912 at a cost of uh, 1,500,000 dollars The damage to the building was estimated at 1 million Tax records were burned as were land indexes in the office of register of D's The county clerk's office was gutted and furnishings and equipment and other offices were in shambles Plus you need to fucking, you know fire the vault guy, right the vault guys an idiot Three men were killed as victims of the mob's fury Will Brown teenager lewis young and Hj heichel a businessman who was walking down the street two blocks away when he was shot in the abdomen Oh, I love to just random. There you are. I go you son of a bitch 50 some individuals were injured with cuts bruises beatings and smoke inhalations Think about think about the initial crime And now three three people of your own race who matter are dead Well, two people of your own race. No, yeah Counting attorney abel shot. Well proclaimed the law would be enforced and the rioters prosecuted The army began to arrest mob ringleaders on the basis of photographs confiscated from the public general wood personally interviewed several suspected mob participants the army confiscated photographs of the riot from the public and began identifying and arresting 100 men accused of taking part So they would all take pictures with the body. That was like a big thing. Oh my god That's a big thing back then you would take pictures. It's a bunch. It's a bunch of people smiling and hanging out with the body It's really cool. It's uh, it's a good time The police compiled their own list of 300 alleged participants One of the names high on the list was milton hoffman cripple Who had worked as denison's secretary? Oh Fucking a hoffman was accused of leading the mob from south oma to the courthouse and whipping them into a frenzy Get the fuck as well as reporting get the fuck the original rape and saying it had happened to him Denison got hoffman out of the city to denver before he could be arrested where he worked for another gambler for seven years before returning to oma 50 men took the grand jury's oath on october 8th 1919 sheriff clark selected a 16th Henry h done a denison loyalist and former chief of police october november indictments including counts of murder with revolvers hanging striking beating bruising wounding shooting choking strangling and suffocating brown Along with arson breaking and entering and inciting others to the same acts the grand jury issued 189 indictments 12 year old soul francis was the youngest to be arrested He had urged other rioters to follow him as he climbed a ladder, but who the fuck I mean look yeah get all get all the fuckers But who you shouldn't be listening to a 12 year old during a riot Well, his brother because the other the kid who rode the horse was also named francis. It was 16 So I think the francis family is pretty fucked up. Yeah, but they're leaders They're leaders. I listen a 12 year old could come and tell me anything right now. I'm probably not gonna listen to it Okay, fair Only a few come climb this ladder mister. Oh, whoa, of course Only a few of the arrests were ever prosecuted mostly on minor charges two exceptions were ralph snider and claud Nethaway both charged for brown's murder from a top of burn police car snider had shouted We have showed the nigger what a northern mob can do. They were found not guilty after a brief jury deliberation Mayor smith said he was positive that a man named davis was one of his assailants Davis was charged with assault to murder to do great bodily harm conspiracy to murder unlawful assembly and rioting Davis claimed he was home during the riot and was not convicted Now I was at home you guys. Oh, yeah, it's a boy. You heard the guys at home Well, not much else we can do here. Your story checks out. That's pretty open and shut there He's got a great alibi. Take care of my man. Sorry about that mix-up. We didn't realize you were at home. Oh, okay Thank you. I'll see you later. Okay. Take care Despite the presence of thousands of people few cooperated with law enforcement a conspiracy of silence protected the participants The grand jury report said people in the mob were under the influence of liquor They had been fueled by local saloons The courthouse gang and everybody just gets shitfaced all day during the I mean, is that really? It was basically what would happen, right? Well, who on the saloon? Of course, but in general it just seems like he was giving out free liquor. Yeah, but what would you do if you're in a riot? and there's free liquor What do you think I'm not fucking doing it? Turn it loose fucking party, bro. I'm gonna be looking for coke The courthouse gang had urged the crowd to drink up and spur enthusiasm for the task in hand and most importantly the accounts of black rapists turn out to be white men in blackface Uh one more time I'm if you're about to say what I think you're about to say the All the accounts of black men attacking white women In the oh ma be We're just white guys. They were investigated. It turned out that they were white guys in blackface You can't even look at me People on one side pointed the finger at denison. His supporters said he would never do anything like this Denison never had anything to do with that riot. They said denison stalwart William billy mayor Denied the old man had anything to do with the riot but added I don't say he didn't get a kick out of it the way it ruined the administration that was in That guy should not be talking There was no evidence to prove tom denison's direct involvement in brown's death But his long time relationship with the oh ma be his campaign to discredit the smith administration His political and legal influence and his connections with hoffman seemed noteworthy Hoffman the cripple whom Was with young miss agnes lowbeck on the night she was allegedly i'm glad at least he still gets called a cripple Yeah On the night she she was allegedly raped by will brown. It turns out milton hoffman was denison's employee his uncle had recommended him to the old man a few years earlier after teenage hoffman Compute completed a business course. He worked as denison's secretary assisting with election ballots and voting before he was 21 milton hoffman disappeared right after the riot He went to denver where he married agnes and where he worked for one of denison's closest friends There they returned to oma hall where they later they returned to oma hall where they spent the rest of their lives fuck this Short lived voices of condemnation were heard but mostly a consensus consensus of acceptance of lynching even approval was typical in oma hall and other cities The violence did not evoke any initiatives to assuage racism or improve conditions for oma hall's african-american community Two years after the riot the coup clucks klan formed an oma hall clavren Mayor ed smith was politically damaged denison's machine won the next election During hennrifana's long career two of his best movies young mr. Lincoln and the oxbow incident featured lynchings as major plot points Jesus christ, dude, that's america that one is fucking dark. I told you it was gonna be dark Good god That's awful I've been I've been avoiding The black The riots and the just just straight up Horrific murder of of towns Rosewood towns were obliterated st. Louis hundreds were killed There's another city. I think it was in arkansas just obliterated. It went up like 14 days But then I was like well, fuck it's a history podcast and this is america, right? And I think you're like like I was saying. I mean, you know, I think you should know that it's good to know this shit Nobody knows this. It's good to know. It's not nice to hear, but it's good to know. No, it's not nice to hear at all But sorry you guys. Sorry bummed. Yeah Welcome to history Next one we'll do about balloons. Yeah Look at mine man. Give me a space to play. The next one's a lot lighter The one the one we just did. Oh, yeah. Yeah Yeah, for I mean for me personally the order switch would have been nice You would have the other way around I think that this would have dragged into the other one Probably yeah Yeah, I guess if you list if you would listen to the next one I don't think there's a right way to handle it probably there isn't but uh Yeah, but the next the next one certainly doesn't seem as tragic I remember some of that information. I was like Jesus christ, man. You're such a fucking vile country vile All right. All right. Can't wait to see it. It'll be it'll be fun when it's time to just kill white people. That'll be interesting Let me see how what happens then. Oh, well. Yeah. Yeah when the mexicans come into genocide against white people and we'll be