 Hello, you're listening to the Dallup. This is the bi-weekly podcast that goes out internationally that is about the country of America and its history. Each week I read a story to my friend. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about. Good God. That was an hour. Thank you, Gary. We'll be right back. All right. Oh God, do you want a little hit of dude? I'll do one buck. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become a tickly podcast. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. Has he done, my friend? No. Is there anything else? May 26th. Now see, that one's bullshit. 1978. 1978. Okay. Sorry. Well, that date's got to be wrong. 1978. Action Park. One of the first water parks in the United States of America opened in Vernon, New Jersey on the grounds of the Mountain Creek Ski Resort. Oh boy. This already, I'm worried. The park was the brainchild of great American recreation. That's a company. Sure. They specialize in great American recreation. Oh, that's a good, very telling name. Yeah. In order to keep the turnstiles going in the summer, the company began offering seasonal attractions. In 1977, an alpine slide was added to the mountain, which allowed riders to fly down the snow-free slopes on sleds controlled by nothing more than a handbrake. The ride was incredibly popular, so park owners decided to expand the summer offerings the following year and Action Park was born. Okay. In 1979, additional slides appeared along with a deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, water swimming pool, and then a large wave pool. Love a good wave pool. Fuck yeah, bro. New attractions continue to appear every summer in the 1980s when great American recreation was experimenting with slide design. It's a fun, fun experiment. Yep. I mean, if I'm at like, honestly, could your life be better than like being like a slide tester? I mean, you know. Come on. I'm hanks and big right there. It really is. Yeah. That was real fun. This one's good. Let's do it again. It's a good one. I'm going to need to slide down a few more times to give you my final evaluation. Hey, no line. The worst thing about a water park is standing, waiting in line while you're freezing. Yeah. Yeah. And the piss. And the piss. Motor world was the other major attraction introduced later and built on unused land across Route 94. Our guests could unleash their inner Mario Andretti on a go kart track. Open wheel racers or tanks. I'm sure not real tank. Okay. Because that's crazy. Real tanks. That would be. I'd see where we were headed immediately in this. I could see a theme park doing that in Russia. Oh yeah. Just actual tank. Come shoot bear with tank. Come shoot live bear with tank. Or shoot Ivan. Do whatever you like. He's drunk. I even saw drunk. The bears to shit face to get tank shot today. Bear drank too much. Also on the motor world side, there was a brewery. Okay. So. Still a little math. Yeah. So we got the water park. We got live your dreams as a race car driver and drive tanks. Who knows what those are. And then alcohol. Alcohol on that side. Alcohol on the side with the alcohol right next to the car side. Right near the car side. All right. Why not? What could go wrong? Action Park was a pioneer in the micro brewery fad and got a brewer from Germany to come over and make beer. There you go. Sure. It sounds fine. Where are we? We're in New Jersey. New Jersey. Okay. Right. The park continued to grow over the years with approximately 75 different rides. At its peak, the water park overshadowed the ski resort. Great American recreation promoted action park with simple but effective TV commercials. Show people having a great time. Jingles such as there's nothing in the world like action park. That's I mean, how are you going to get that out of your head? And the action never stops at action park. Oh, wow. We have a park at action park. That's good. Yeah. There's water. It's a water park. There's drunk drivers across the street at action park. Get a tank. Get a tank. The ads were played endlessly on TV and radio stations in the 80s and 90s. The commercials for action park marketed as an essential summer experience for reckless youths. For reckless youths? Well, it was very much like fucking go crazy. But they're advertising to reckless youths. Well, they didn't even say reckless youths, but the way it was, you know. Comby reckless youth at action park. It was basically like go fucking crazy at action park. Come have spray paint and shoot your friends at action park. Holy shit. Action park. What the fuck? Get drunk on moonshine. Fuck your girlfriend's friend at action park. Oh my God. You're all going to die at action park. Attendance grew each year as the crowds enjoyed unique rides. If something looked like it might please the crowds, great American recreation was not afraid to try it. That's not a good sign. And they kept pushing the envelope. The daring ride designs were poorly engineered and had little regard for safety. That's great. So, I mean, we're just headed towards some deaths. Underage teenage staff were often disinterested in enforcing safety guidelines and alcohol was distributed a bit too freely. It sounds like TSA with the airport security. That's what I thought you meant. Yeah. A little bit. Well, because they just did a test this week. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. 95. 95. So, that's a deep 5% catching 5% of terrorists is good. That's good. It's mainly lotion terrorism. Yeah. They're based action park is basically the TSA of all right after action park open doctors in four counties reported summertime increases in ankle sprains, broken bones, bloody elbows and missing teeth. Despite the injuries, little action was taken by state regulators. Action park was a great advertisement for the state of New Jersey and a revenue generator. Most everyone was having a good time and nobody wanted to disrupt it. Well, if you kind of think a little bit about the culture of Jersey like as it is now, I'm sure that in this time it wasn't that different. And then you know, this is a class of people who take pride in being a little shittier. Right. I don't know. Vicki just got mad at you. The teen staff knew of all the places that one could get stoned and or drunk and hide from supervisors. It's great. Most were under trained and often under the influence. So they would drink while they were working. Great summer job. What a great gig. They cared very little for enforcing the enforcing the park rules and safety requirements. Height and weight based restrictions were often ignored. That's a problem. Action park was fined by the state for letting underage employees run rides. Jesus. Jim to say was a security director for the park. He got the job at the age of 21. Wow. After having worked at the park for just two years. Wow. This is not good. What do you mean? That's not good. It sounds fine. I don't even know where we're headed, but I got a bad feel. I'm going to be a fucking 80s cop movie. I got a bad feeling about this. This is what this is what Jim had to say. A 21 year old guy in charge of security. Action park was extreme before extreme existed. Extremely dumb. Numbers bars and beer stands scattered strategically around the park could keep one in an alcohol induced state of bravado practically all day. Combine that with a terrain which allowed for a lot of mischief to go unnoticed and you've got the makings for well a lot of action. Action park attendees were affectionately referred to as gumbees because you bounced off the ground when you hit. I don't know anyone who grew up in Vernon in the 70s or 80s who either didn't work or get injured there. Jesus Christ. Why were they called gumbees because they would help you get back up? They would just bounce off shit. Yeah. Jesus. Needless to say. You just have an enclosed park with just a ton of shit face people. You basically yeah. And no one. And nobody gives a fuck and the securities run by a 21 year old who really is very funny. You can tell from his. And the rides are shoddy and horribly put together. Yeah. Okay. Needless to say there were a lot of injuries at action park. Yeah. In 1986 the Herald reported the previous year's accident toll at action park. More than 110 including 45 head injuries and 10 fractures. Jesus. Those were just the reported injuries. There were many more. The park got into a lot of trouble with the state for not reporting accidents. Sounds like accident park is a better name. That. Okay. Despite this action park unlike other amusement parks in the state at the time was fine just once between 1979 and 1986 for not following procedure. But the park was cited numerous times. The Herald said this was not the case for other amusement parks which would be fine for the first offense. So action park is getting. Yeah. Why is action park getting the fucking. Because it's actually in park. It's got such a catchy jingle. You want to shut down that jingle. You want to shut it down. Are people just to is it just become an institution at this point. Yeah. I think and also think it was it was a huge money maker. I think that it brought in a lot of tax money and I think that. Yeah. Well like an advertisement like I said. There you go. Not like Jersey has a lot of stuff that people like I want to go to that. Yeah. Sorry. Except for the STD clinic. So many so many Bruce Springsteen listeners upset right now. Yeah. What made action park different from other amusement parks was the control that patrons had over their ride experience. Sorry. That's not a good thing. I've never heard of anything quite like that. Really. That you are in control of the ride. Part of the thrill was the danger involved. People park officials would note over and over again were often responsible for their own injuries and park attendees tended to agree with them. Interviewed by the Herald in 1982 one person said he had more concerns about driving on the Long Island Expressway to get to the park than about going on any of the rides. People continue to use the wave pool to you know said a park attendee if somebody jumps in and can't swim that's their problem. What the fuck. What is what it's really telling the difference in time. I know it's only like 30 some years but Jesus Christ. Oh so what it's the parks fault because you jump in and you can't swim. Why was you drowning. Hey stupid. Why was he drowning. Why don't you get out of the water then. Look you can't take the heat get out of the kitchen. Oh I don't swim get out of the wave pool. Oh I died because I don't know how to swim. You stupid idiot. What am I supposed to do. Life God doesn't mean that. Almost any ride from the water slides to the doom buggies was capable of dealing some serious pain. Greg a sponder said the river rapids ride was great under inflated and overloaded rafts with slam into walls and sharply angled concrete. I mean I'm sure that if I were to see it it would look a little more tame than what I'm picturing because I don't think so. Yeah like. They were supposed to there's so it's a it's a it's a river rapids ride. Yeah put in like they made this cement on the side looks like jagged rocks. Jagged. I'm thinking that people bash their head into it. So it's just cement jagged rocks sticking out. Yeah cement jagged rocks are jagged rocks. On one of these turns my friend's mother as the raft literally buckled in half like a taco flew into his knee and broke her nose. Oh jeez. Blood was pouring out all over and the lady supposedly watching for injuries looked like she couldn't give a shit. What do you want me to do. Hey it's not my knee right. Why did you get in the river if your nose is capable of breaking. Nice job stupid. You know I recommend you not hit your nose into his knees. Jesus Christ she's really bleeding in this river. Hey I'm just thinking of Springsteen right now. He was of course talking about a circular ride raft the Colorado River ride. It was a long and winding concrete trough fashioned to look like a natural river. Back in 1987 it was built as a family ride by Action Park but the trip was bumpy and sometimes violent. A group of riders could share a raft down the Colorado which would throw riders against rocks and corners and at points descend into a tunnel protruding rocks would tag unsecured riders who could not see in the darkness. Okay so they're putting you down a tunnel that is dark with jagged rocks that you can't see. And this is a family ride? Yeah. For the kids. Concussions were common because there were no helmets available to guests. You shouldn't have a ride where helmets are what we're talking about. Have you ever heard besides white water rafting do you know of any other thing and water polo when do you have to wear helmets in the fucking water? That's it I think. Yeah. Okay well there we go. You're not going away on your fucking vacation looking to helmet up to go down like a lazy river. It's just amazing that anyone thinking you could put people into a dark tunnel with jagged rocks sticking out. Whose idea was it like there's no point in having both of those. Great American recreation. There's no point in having like if you're gonna have jagged rocks put some light on it if you're gonna have a dark don't do anything. Or maybe just have a pussy ride. What about that where people just go down and bounce into sponges. Yeah yeah the sponge rides. This is a fucking real Jersey shit right here bro. Park officials were always quick to point out that the park had over a million visitors each year which made the actual injury rate statistically small. Of course those are the reported injuries. Enough injuries occurred at Action Park actually bought the town of Vernon a new ambulance or new ambulances to keep up with the injury volume. I'm sorry wait they had to buy more ambulances because of Action Park. The park purchased the ambulances for the town because there was so many injuries. That is an amazing gift. That is like that's like buying bandages for the anniversary to the wife that you beat. Here you go honey. I know you're always bleeding yeah because you hit me. Oh shut up don't chase it back too far. It's amazing that they weren't like why you stopped the thing that causes the people to get into the ambulances. No no no let's deal with the symptom not the disease baby. This isn't pussy park Joe. In 1987 the Herald also spoke to spoke with the director of the yard and nearby hospital who said 5 to 10 people were brought there daily from the park. Well I mean that is shocking. Injuries included ankle sprains cuts and contusions and broken bones with injuries most often occurring from slipping and swimming pools or cuts from water slides. He also noted that many of the injured came to the yard with alcohol on their breath. Maybe they should just open Action Park in a hospital. You know at some slides they at some water parks you get like a thing to slide on like a you know when you go into the tube. This was just old school and people would get like fiberglass they would just get burns and like everyone. Well you know the thing about fiberglass is that pain doesn't stay with you for long. It doesn't feel like invisible needles living inside your skin for weeks. Also due to the alcohol consumption there were many brawls between men in bathing suits which led to more trips to the emergency room. Oh god honestly like I knew it was coming but now the visualization of this place is terrible. Oh yeah now it's all together. Now it's. Fuck you Tony. Now fuck you Tony. Now it's like. Now fuck you. Hey Tony this guy is telling me to fuck off. Now what you say Tony. I feel like the ride now is getting out of the park okay. That's the ride. Like that's the adrenaline ride now. One of the most famous rides at Action Park was the Alpine Slide. Was the ambulance. The Alpine Slide concept was simple. You sat on a sled and descended down concrete tracks using a handbrake you control your speed either slowly or at a speed described by a former park employee as death awaits. If you lost control of your cart on the Alpine Slide it would simply crash through the hay bale barriers and then you would enjoy falling down a hillside onto nasty rocks. What. If you went too slowly on the ride the person behind you would ram into you. There was a slow lane and a fast lane no helmets and the brakes did not function. Well it sounds like they need helmets. They need a lot of helmets. You should hand you a helmet when you walk in the door. I'm kind of picturing what so it's kind of like bobsledding a little bit right. Yeah I mean it's like it's like except you have no training. It's like a cart but it's on cement and so you're on cement and you don't have helmets yeah and then there's just hay that's already not good to keep you from going through but you would just fly through the hay bale and then roll down this hill of rocks. Well the hay is a nice feature. It is a nice feature. It's probably nice to remember that when you remember the good times before the rocks. Park EMTs would just stand at the bottom of the Alpine Slide waiting for someone to need their assistance. Wow I mean that's fucked up. That's so amazing that they just stationed them there instead of fixing it. How is that yeah I mean seriously right yeah like the amount of money they're paying. They're like what's a solution here. I don't know let's put some EMTs at the bottom of this thing. I don't know get the sick out of here fast. They knew that it was just a matter of when and not if some poor kid would get banged up and bloodied. Kid how is I mean so there's really so they're not enforcing the age and height requirements or the weight requirements. There's no helmets. There's no control. Right. They're not even spacing these people apart. No. The only thing they seem to have a handle on is getting people to the hospital. That's what they're on top of. Action Park goer Allison Becker said one thing that would catch your attention was the first aid cart kind of like a golf cart piloted by two zitty teens wearing oversized EMT shirts. The cart would inevitably be seen looping through the trails grass and little forest that surrounded the park. But when you saw it you wouldn't see a kid with a scraped knee. You'd see a guy holding a blood soaked towel on a huge head wound. Oh my God. You see a gash the size of a big gulp on someone's leg. Ah blood blood blood. All I remember was blood. I also real quick it is great that this person the only thing they can relate a huge gash to is a big gulp. They're like you know a gash this there's so many things you can say there instead they're like you know a gash the size of the biggest soda you've ever seen. Like a 64 ounce bucket of sodas. What I'm talking about. I had like a cut the size of the base of a 40 ounce. Jesus Christ. The Alpine slide was responsible for action park's first death. Whoa. That of a 19 year old park employee in 1980 a malfunction caused a wheeled sled to derail from its cement track after it failed to properly negotiate a curve. The victim was thrown from the car down an embankment he sustained a fatal head injury when his head struck a rock. Why are rocks like. It's a water park. There's rocks. Yeah exactly. Don't when you go to water parks aren't there a lot of rocks. Yeah but you're not riding it. Well first of all no and second of all they're I mean the fact that they're like they're creating jagged rocks but then they also won't get rid of rocks. Right. I mean you get rid of the rocks. Well it's hard. It's not hard. No you gotta pick it up. It probably take like a week. Gotta move them. Yeah I know that's what I'm saying. It'll probably take about a week. Yeah but no. At least. At least what nothing else to say after that just for the record. At least 14 fractures and 26 head injuries caused by the slide were reported between 1984 and 1985. That's just one year. Yeah and yet the Alpine slide was called the park's most popular ride in the 1986 New Jersey Herald article one that a park official declared quote the safest ride there is noting that a 90 year old grandmother and mothers with babies on their laps have taken a ride on it. I mean what is he lying or just an asshole. Yes he's told. The same article said that the slide was responsible for more accidents the majority of lawsuits and 40% of citations against the park. I mean get out of this relationship action park. The title pool was called the grave pool by employees. It was a huge freshwater pool 100 by 250 feet long and 8 feet deep that could hold up to a thousand people a thousand people. Yeah for large fans forced air into the pool and created waves which could reach a height of 40 inches. A thousand people. So that's what almost four feet. Yeah. The waves were generated for 20 minutes at a time with 10 minute breaks in between. 10 minute where you could get the dead out of there. Oh God scrape out the dead. Just scrape the dead out. A big problem with the pool was that many of its users were not good swimmers. Action park attracts many people from urban areas who have few chances to swim and frequently must be rescued from the water said Wong Park official. So they don't have a chance to swim much so they decide they'll go into the craziest conditions possible to learn. Because they look at it and they don't think it's that deep and then they get in it and they're overwhelmed. Well because it seems like action park isn't loose with the info. No they do not. They don't really tell you much. They don't they don't tell people anything. Yeah they were. No they're like cigarettes. They're like you know they're at the point now where they're like well we don't see any connection. He said they don't know how to swim and they jump right into the water. Even good swimmers would forget that the freshwater waves were not buoyant like waves in the ocean so they would have to work harder to stay afloat. Crowded swimming conditions meant that people would bash into each other the sides of the pool or ladders as they tried to get out of the water while the waves were on. Some people would simply sink to the bottom seemingly unaware that the pool's depth dropped down a level as you move from one end to the other. Lifeguards at the tidal wave pool often would save 30 people a day. Oh my god. Perhaps your average lifeguard at a pool or lake might rescue one or two people in an entire summer. Well there's the action is being the lifeguard. I mean I'm really just picturing that and it just it's it sounds very awful and graphic. Yeah. Like I mean I just imagined. It's insane. It's like when you go to a concert you know and like people are getting a little rowdy and you're like it's not a good area. Now put that in water. An element that you have less control of than land. Two people drowned in the grave pool a 15 year old boy in 1982 and an 18 year old man in 1987. Many more came close despite the fact that 12 Red Cross certified lifeguards were stationed at the pool at all times. Oh my god. The kayak ride allowed people to paddle tiny boats through white water. It used submerged electric fans to agitate the water above. Okay. Often the kayaks got stuck or tipped over and people had to get out of them to remedy the situation. The ride was not very popular. In the summer of 1982 a 27 year old man from Long Island got out of his kayak and while he was trying to get back in he stepped near an exposed wire that was under the water. Oh god. He was taken to a hospital in New York State where he was pronounced dead. What? Two of his family members were also electrocuted but lived. Electrocuted? Park officials denied that he was electrocuted. What? But the coroner's report proved the man died from cardiac arrest due to electrical shock. Action park was quick to point out that the victim didn't have any burns. What is that? What is the point of that? The coroner said you don't have burns when you're in the water like that. When you're wet you're a dead ringer for a good electrical shock. I mean a wiring defect described as either a nick or a 7 inch gash depending on whose account you know a nick or a big gulp. No it's just a nick. Right it's a 7 inch nick. Yeah but a nick. You know it's like a 20 ounce Pepsi. Anyway that was the cause of the electrocution. The ride was drained for investigation and never opened again because as a park official told the New Jersey Herald at the time people will always be intimidated by it now. Poor action park. There was the cannonball loop. Not it was this where you just shoot cannonballs at people? In 1985 the great American recreation executive who founded the park Eugene Mulville drove up plans on a napkin during lunch. Hey that's how you want to draw them up. That's the best way. Safety first. Have a couple Manhattan's and then figure out your park. Hey what if there's something that goes like this. That's just a swirl buddy. Yeah. Anyway I can write this lunch off now officially. It was a radical new water slide design. It was a large slide you had to climb a tall wooden ladder to get to. At the end it had a complete vertical loop like one would commonly find on a roller coaster. So it just goes around. Oh shit. Up and around. So it's like the skateboard ramp. It's like an O in the air. It's like an O in a water. Now think about what the water doesn't know. I honestly can't. I mean my guess is that it doesn't make it to the top of the O. My guess is there's a. If someone drew that on a napkin I'd be like right but the water can't do that. Yeah I see I'd be like man this sounds great. Fucking do this. I'll go first. Employees said they were given a hundred dollar bills to test it. A writer was reported to have gotten stuck with it. This should be called Jackass the park. I mean. Hey you're going to do the loop now I'm putting a little toy car up my ass. Okay. A writer was reported to have gotten stuck at the top of the loop due to insufficient water pressure and a hatch had to be built at the bottom of the slope to allow for future extractions. To bring. How big. This is a huge loop. It's not a huge loop. It's big but it's big but it's not huge. And so people are just getting trapped at the top of the loop. And they had to make a hatch so that they could remove these people. Yeah. Let me see if I can find it. It's not a gigantic thing. It's a small loop. That. Well I'll just cut this part out. Okay. I'll just mark. Okay so. There is. Okay that's kind of what I was picturing. So it's the loop is kind of small at the bottom. And it's really high up that where you start. Yeah. And then you come out and you and you're either dead or alive. Yeah. Definitely. It definitely looks. I can understand why on a napkin you like what you see. In reality it's a little concerning. It's definitely a napkin design. It's a very sharp upturn too. Yeah. It's not like you're just cruising for a little while. Debris and rocks would collect at the bottom of the loop creating a sandpaper like surface. Now that makes sense right because it's a loop. So obviously that stuff can't just wash out because it can't get up. So it just stays at the bottom. I'm still sort of troubled by the fact that there's a salt like a sandpaper part of this ride. Yeah that's the nice part. The strange part. Those who dared make the plunge suffered terrible cases of slide rash. The cannibal loop was only open for a month. I mean it honestly an action park time. It's like an hour. It really is. That was in 1985 before the state's advisory board on Carnival Amusement Ride Safety ordered it closed due to mounting injuries. I mean think about like think about there being a Carnival Safety Board having to say no. I mean if you've ever been to a carnival I mean it's very unsafe. Everything goes. Yeah. One worker told a local newspaper that quote there were too many bloody noses and back injuries from the ride. Oh God. Chris Gethard had this to say about a ride. When I was on this cannonball falls slide and this is the cannonball loop this is cannonball falls. Right. I was at the top of a hill. It seemed normal. There was no warning that halfway down the ride I would be shot into a pitch black tube. This was incredibly daunting. It became even worse when the tube opened backed up only when it emerged sticking out from the face of a cliff. This slide sent unsuspecting riders shooting out of a cliff face some two stories above the water. Two stories. Two stories. Two stories. With absolutely no warning it was just high enough that you had time to think and panic about your situation. Rider after rider myself included would scream in terror before hitting the surface of the slimy green water with a sickening slap. After this the victims of the ride would gather at the edge of the pool to watch others suffer the same fate. It was like all the victims of a car wreck gathering a dead man's curve to watch the next car smash into the median. It sounds like fugitive the ride. Two stories. Two stories is a tremendous drop. To not tell anybody. The Tarzan swing led to the third death at Action Park. I mean that's a really it's really crazy that a statement like that is almost going unnoticed to me at this point. This was a steel arch hanging from a 20 foot long cable over a spring fed pool. Okay. Okay so it's a pool that's spring fed. Spring fed. Spring yeah so it's it's not warm. Okay. Patrons waited in long lines for the chance to hang from it swing out over the water and then jump off as the beam reached its height. The pool was surrounded by New Jersey natives who would scream obscenities at those hanging from the beam. Well I said what are you telling you piece of fucking shit. So wait what are we looking at exactly it's like is it just the swing. Okay it's a beam right. Okay it's like an arching beam that swings out. Oh I get you and when it gets like it's height then you do you leap. So it's like a two by four you jump off of essentially when you are at your peak height. It's a good idea. Okay some people by the way it's a terrible idea. It's a terrific idea. Now people hang on too long and scrape their toes on the concrete on the far side so if you went all the way across you would get hurt. These rides are putting way too much on the people. Well I would think if you're making a ride and there's a swinging thing on the other end of the swinging thing you would make it so people wouldn't hit something. Yeah like pads. Others. And you'd also tell people things. Others used the ride properly but were then surprised to find out the water underneath was very cold. It was cold enough in fact that lifeguards sometimes had to rescue people who were so surprised by the sudden chill that they could not swim out of the pool. I don't understand the why cold water. There's a lot of red flags here but cold water. Well there's a natural spring there. So just for your action park. The cell here is not that you can bottle water at your pool. The cell here is that you'll get in the water and maybe leave without going to the hospital. Maybe you don't like nature. No I do like nature. Action park is not an extension of nature. Cold water can shock the muscles preventing basic motor functionality like swimming. In the most extreme cases cold water shock can cause cardiac arrest and that's exactly what happened to a man who died in the pool in 1984. So everybody's dying at action park. If this like if you just took this dial and just a couple ticks this is a horror film. Everybody's dying at action park. Hey come on down this weekend bring your whole family you're all gonna die down at action park. You'll make it back. All right. By the mid 1980s the park had developed a reputation for its unsafe ride. Why? Rumors swirled of cut corners with maintenance and safety enforcement. I won't hear of it. People still came by the droves. Of course because we're fucking morons. It wasn't just about the water. There was the erodium the first and only of its kind in the world. I'm also gonna guess the last. The German design erodium made its international debut at action park in 1987. It was basically a first generation vertical wind tunnel. It could reach up draft speeds approaching 100 miles an hour. Party goers would wear special skydiving suit. Oh. A skydive over an air column powered by a 650 horsepower fan. But this is actually still a thing. I'm sure it's far safer now. Flights were less than a minute long and limited to a maximum of six or seven feet above the ground. There was stadium seating all around the outside which allowed family members and friends to watch you get hurt. The erodium led to broken legs and arms and shoulder and wrist dislocations. Oh God. One rider instinctively tried to break his fall by extending his arm which caused his shoulder dislocation, severed nerves and near permanent paralysis of the arm. Okay, so yes they do it now but they slowly reduced the speed. No. This would just cut off the fan and you would drop. And they, I mean I've been in them. There's like a tremendous amount of padding. There's like a professional there who's going to like help you in and out. Yeah, there's not, it's not just like, yo jump into the fan. Unplug it. Get out. Unplug it. Yo plug it back in. Get in there. Roll them out. Unplug it. Get out. Of course the title pool was the most dangerous as far as fatalities were concerned. Of course. A 20 year old from Brooklyn drowned the pool in 1984 then an 18 year old in 1987 that brought the grave pool's death count to three and the park's death count to six in seven years. After the 1987 drowning the New Jersey Herald reported that the title pool was not classified as a ride but as a pool by the state. Under state regulations at the time that meant that the company merely had to keep the water clean and make sure that certified lifeguards were on duty. I don't even think they did that but keep going. Eventually the park just started killing people who were on their way to enjoy a day of fun. Like a crazy Stephen King novel. On July 26, 1992, six were killed and 47 injured when a bus traveling to Action Park overturned and burst into flames. I don't and that is terrible. But it's a Stephen King novel at this point. And it also might just be a blessing and disguise for one person on that bus. I mean at this fucking raid. Would you go somewhere where someone was dying every year? No. No. Of course there were endless lawsuits and settlements. They eventually caught up with Action Park. By the 1990s Americans were spending less on insurance and insurance premiums were suffocating the business. Years of negative headlines finally eroded the park's traffic. The most dangerous rise disappeared closed as part of legal settlements or an inability to obtain insurance coverage. Great American recreation as its legal troubles would suggest was accused of cutting corners to maximize profits. For example it was accused of building rides cheaply, sporadically maintaining many of them and failing to renovate rides to take advantage of later safety improvements to its ideas made by other facilities. In the parks last year it kept part of the ski area open despite being unable to obtain liability insurance. Well what the fuck do they care at this point? I mean it's basically SeaWorld for humans so what the fuck do they care? Hey welcome Blackfish. What? Hey! Hey get in the tank! You live here now. What? Great American recreation was forced into bankruptcy in 1995 but Action Park would quietly limp along for another year. When Action Park's 1996 season ended on Labor Day everyone expected it to reopen on Memorial Day weekend the following year but when the spring of 1997 rolled around the park did not reopen. The park remained closed for weeks before officials would make an announcement. It wasn't until July of 1987 Great American recreation officially announced the park's closure. But like Michael Myers from movie Halloween this water park won't die. No. Die! Less than a year later the property was sold to a Canadian destination resort developer. The company renovated the grounds and reopened it promptly in 1998 as Mountain Creek Water Park. Mountain Creek announced their opening with the slogan Action Park is back but the new company was much more responsible. The Alpine Slide and Motor World were shut down. Most of the closed action park rides were replaced with newer safer water slides. The water park did reasonably well as it neared the year 2000 but then attendance began to drop again. By 2008 the owners were looking to sell which they did in 2010. The park was sold to an investor group led by a man named Eugene Amovahill. Eugene was the former Great American Recreation Executive who originally founded Action Park in the 1970s. Alright, good. Great. We want all the thrills and none of the spills says Andrew Amovahill, CEO of Mountain Creek which owns the facility. When we surveyed people they knew the Action Park name better than Mountain Creek he says, we decided to take the plunge and re-embrace the name. The new Action Park has old favorite attractions plus the zero G ride, 100 foot looping water slide reminiscent of Action Park's famous cannonball loop which Amovahill's late father is designed on the napkin. The new loop was built by a renowned water slide designer. Don't you think you should tell, this way you should tell people before they get on that ride. This ride was designed on a napkin. Wanna go? Yeah? Go ahead buddy. What about you? No? Alright, there's the emergency hatch. Get the fuck out. Also around one of the turns it's gonna feel like 90 cats are licking your ass. The world is a different place, said President Bill Brennan. The new rides we're building are meticulously engineered. Uh huh. Action Park is back? No, it's not. Oh, it's back baby. It is back. Enjoy that Action Park. Actually, the Canadian years remind me of when Dick Enberg took over SNL from Lauren Michaels for a little while, a different vibe. And you know what I mean? It just had to go back to its dangerous roots. It's all good. And there's no doubt when we asked Vicky about Action Park. Oh, she'll know. She'll be like, I loved Action Park. Shout out to Vicky Pesa on the ones and twos. Aw, girl. Alright, thank you. Thank me.