 Yeah, okay. It's how we begin. It'll be our off mic beginning. Let's connect. I'll just yell, hey girl, hey girl, and then we'll start. Nope. You're listening to the dollop. This is a bi-weekly, all the genders, podcast about American history. Each week I read a story to my friend. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about. Because he doesn't get enough sleep on tape nights. Oh, here we go. Here we fucking go. God, do you want to look who to do? I'll do one buck. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling podcasts. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Oh, hi Gary. No, I see you've done my friend. No, no. Gary, Gary Reynolds. Gary of the Gareth. That's my real name. What are half of the 19th century? Whoa, what the fuck? No. That's all I got. Jesus. This is a train wreck. I don't know how to specify this. This is a tree. We didn't fully end the advertisement and then the date. That's the fucking ended. I mean, you know, I think we got all the information out there. I don't think we have closure. And now we're where? Where are we? We're in the later half of the 19th century. Later half of the 19th century. All right. It was the golden age of Shanghai. Shanghai was the practice of kidnapping sailors to man crewless ships. Well, okay. All right. There's a lot going on. I'm still thinking about the mattress. Shanghai is kidnapping. You're kidnapping us a guy to go work on a ship. But an empty ship? Well, I mean, there's not enough guys on the ship to run the ship. So they grab a guy to work on the ship. So they just take a man and then they're like, there you go. You work here now. Pretty much. Okay. Good deal. I think you have got it exactly. Good deal. Okay. Sorry. I had to quit the bash process on my Macintosh because bash overheats your computer. It's a stupid thing. All right. The middle of the 19th century witnessed the zenith of shipbuilding and the construction of the efficient and beautiful China and California clippers. Okay. In contrast, Americans merchant Marine had gone from being America's first and finest employee in colonial days to a disreputable occupation, one that was classed with criminals and prostitutes. Cool. Ah, you work on a boat, how did you go suck a cock then? Excuse me? You fucking boat worker. All right. Why don't you put a dick in your face? I'm turning around. Or stop talking to me. Stop talking to me. Shit, Bert. I don't even know you. You're both loving you, Bert. Stop talking to me. Get off your boat. I'm walking away. In tolerable living conditions aboard ships and harsh punishment of sailors resulting in fewer and fewer Americans shipping out. Sure. Congress had made flogging of sailors illegal in 1850. They created a law in 1850 saying you couldn't flog a sailor. It was a good time. It was so bad that someone went to Congress and went, hey, man, they're beaten guys with things. Listen, we really... I think we might have to make a law. A flogging instrument. I think we might have to make a law. But they were still cheated horribly. There was still brutal hazing, which was sanctioned by the courts. It was legal to brutally haze them to maintain discipline. See, brutally is a tough word. Yeah, it's tough to hear that before hazing because hazing is, by nature, seems like it's sort of like all in good fun for the most part. But brutal hazing. Under federal statute from 1835 until 1898 and founded on the case Butler versus McClellan of 1806, brutal hazing was legal and included corporal beating, starving, and imprisoning. Hey, just razin' ya. Totally legal. You're a POW now. Get it? We're gonna starve you. Now, scissor like bacon. Pop, pop, popcorn. They were also scantily dressed, often soaked with salt spray and malnourished. Sailors easily became victim to rheumatism, consumption, and scurvy. Once a sailor signed on board a vessel for a voyage, it was illegal for him to leave the ship before the voyage's end. The penalty was imprisonment. So you can't quit this job. It's like the Army, really. It's a little worse than the Army. Yeah, if it is worse. I think they treat you better in the Army if that's possible. But if you leave, you go to jail. Yeah. All of this made it pretty difficult for ships to recruit competent American seamen. Yeah, of course. People are like, oh no, no, I know the deal. It's all bullshit. Yeah. Yeah, so no. So you want to come on board? No, no, I've heard about it. It's all total bullshit. I don't want to get covered in salt spray while you imprison me. Come on. All right. They, all the Americans were looking for jobs where they weren't beaten or starved. I mean, talk about spoiled. Also, the 1949 gold rush was in full swing. So many sailors had gone to mine their fortune after the discovery of gold in February 1849. 60 vessels left New York for San Francisco. 70 more took off from Philadelphia and Boston. By the end of the year, 697 ships had entered the San Francisco Bay. Most of the sailors abandoned ships. So they needed crews and they needed them badly. First recruiters conducted legitimate business. But the demand grew and the supply of men dwindled so captains turn towards Shanghai or crimping as it was known. Crimping? Yeah. Okay. You don't like crimping? No, I don't. I don't. Well, I don't like either term. It's close to pimping. Yeah, it sounds like a mix of Crips and pimping, which to me is not a good term. Crips came Cripp pimping. Crips floors in Port City, San Francisco, Portland, Seattle on the West Coast. Portland, Portland eventually surpassed San Francisco for Shanghai on the East Coast. New York easily led the way followed by Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and it was big business as early as 1852. 23 Shanghai gangs operated in San Francisco. But okay, walk me through what a Shanghai would be. We're going to walk you through it. Okay. Okay. The Cripp man is living by furnishing ships with crews. The Cripp had one or more boarding houses, which provided lodging and other services to sailors. Okay. They also had saloons. The boarding masters employed men known as runners and the runner's job was to get the seaman into the boarding house or saloon. While the ship was waiting offshore to unload its cargo, the only way a sailor could leave is legally was with the runner. He couldn't jump off the ship or he'd be in prison. Okay. But he could leave with the runner. Uh huh. Whenever an incoming vessel arrived, numerous Whitehall boats could be seen streaming from the waterfront. Competition was fierce because runners were paid commission for bringing a sailor to a boarding house or saloon. Once aboard the ship, the runners solicited the sailors to desert and accompany them to their boarding. Wait, wait. Okay. Sorry. So, okay. So they will, they will go find a sailor. They will go out to the ships. Okay. They go out to the ships. Yeah. Like while the ships have docked, they go out to the ships and the. It's docked. So it's in the bay. Okay. But it's. Wait to unload its cargo. Right. Okay. But it's, it's right. But it's pretty much on land for the most part. So, and the runner goes in there and convinces a sailor to go to a saloon. Yeah. And then through that is sort of like time sharing like why he should like come on this other boat. Yeah. Okay. So he's just getting him drunk and making it. Okay. Runners would offer free liquor or other inducements to get sailors to come to their boarding house or saloon. Once they're sailors would be drugged. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Drugged. Yeah. The thing was usually administered by the bartender, often by putting snuff in their beer, sometimes dropping a strong plug of tobacco in the man's whiskey. Snuff said. Wait. This just took a much crazier turn. Yeah. So I'm guessing the runners aren't the best salesman. Oh no, they're, yeah. I mean, they, they are salesmen when they get out there. But once, once they. Yeah, but they're, they're, they're closing like Cosby. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah, totally. But once they get them in the boarding house saloon, their job is done. They're fucking back to get the next guy off. They're off getting the next dude. And then the bartender takes over or the crimper. Okay. If the. This is a lot to handle, by the way. Okay. If the tobacco didn't do the trick, they were given a drink spiked with Lodinum opium or chloral hydrate. Hmm. If still nothing, they would hit the guy over the head with what was known as a Bung starter. Okay. All right. So let's just, let's everybody slow down. Okay. So they, Plancy is, is the flog. Yeah. With a Bung starter. Bung starter. It's probably just a big bat. Okay. Okay. Knocked the guy over the head. All right. Cause I don't know. After they were relieved of their belongings, including all their clothes, they're wrapped in a blanket and rode unconscious out to a waiting ship. What? All the crewmen needed was four limbs and at least one good eye. What? That's all I needed. Okay. It's, it's getting them naked and putting him in the blankets. That's my new sticking point. Um, why that? Cause they were gonna, cause they could take the clothes and sell them. They're stripping. It's like when you kill a buffalo. How long could this? How long? Please do not be a Native American about drugging and declothing sales. But how, like, how, this could not have lasted long because as soon you have to be like, it's weird one. Is 50 years a long time? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. They swore, this is a quote, they swarm over the rail like pirates and virtually take possession of the deck. The crew are shoved into the runner's boats and the vessel is often left in a perilous situation with none to manager. The sails unfurled and she is liable liable to drift about. And in the shipping channel. In some cases, not a man has been left aboard in half an hour after anchor has been dropped. So so the runners get there. Okay. And everyone's off the boat. Yeah. A seller was anybody's game until he actually was in a boat and then he had named his crib. Oh, it's very pimpy. It is very pimpy. It's real pimpy. Yo, yo, that's my bitch. Yeah. I mean, it really is like I pissed on that already. That's my bitch. He did. He did. He did piss on me. He did. He did. He pissed all over me. He was my parent square. He's the one who got me naked in the blanket first. Yeah. Therefore, he pissed on his bitch. He's pissed on me. I've been creeped yet. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. Hey, tell my wife boy. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Aside from two to four months advanced pay, sailors could not collect their wages until their ship had completed its voyage, which took anywhere from four months to four years. What the fuck sailors left the ship before the voyage was finished and the cargo unloaded, they would not be paid. So the captains had a strong incentive to get sellers to desert ship. Oh my God. This sounds like a government. The ship's captains welcomed the runners aboard to lure the deserting sailors on the shore. So the ship would pull in and until the cargo is unloaded, no one gets paid. So they would sit there waiting for the cargo to unload and then they'd get, then the captains would get the guys to come out to try and get the sailors off the ship so they'd never have to pay. Right. So a guy could waste three and a half years and then in the last minute be like, I'll do a shot. Yeah, I could use a drink. Sailors eventually became wise to the tactic. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I mean, how long until someone's like, Hey, there's a really shitty deal going on out there. Have you heard? So captains would try to get the crews to leave by serving rotten or tiny food rations. Oh, rotten. Yeah. That's a rat for you. The men then usually deserted within a few days but often the captain would have already made a deal with a crimp. The sailors would sometimes within hours find themselves aboard the vessel they had just left. No, no, no. Are they just like what you just heard from the previous voyage? Well, that's so awkward. Naked. Oh, God, naked again? Why naked again? Because they were on the ship and they just couldn't. I understand the process but we can eliminate, we can eliminate. They know who they're getting. You don't need to renewed this man. And, and then the ship I'm sure would sell them clothes that they would have to pay off. This is bullshit. It's called capitalism. It's called bullshit. Also, they would be in debt to the cramps for two months advanced pay to sign up for the outgoing. How is this happening? How is this? How is nobody stopping it? America. Yeah, but why? I mean, at some point, somebody must have complained and perpetual poverty to work off a debt attached to his future wages. The sailor was a virtual slave laboring under subhuman conditions. So, okay. So the crepper would make the captain give him the sailors advanced pay. So for each each each. So the sale get two months advanced pay right. And so they bring this unconscious guy out this unconscious naked guy out right and then and then the captain would be like, Well, here's your commission for getting that guy his job. So it's like if you work for a temp agency where they're like, we take a percentage of your weight that the runner would get the money. Yeah, the runner would get the advanced money because they they found they brought in the client. But then so but no, but then so what's that it's not advanced money. Well, you but you owed the you owed the man who drugged you and got you nude and made you a slave. Got your job. Hey man, you're going to be a dick or tip. He's just a headhunter. So the two months advanced pay never goes to the person who's been kidnapped and and why would it the guy. Okay, okay. Yeah, you're right. No, I just want to make sure that that's what's going on. This practice was known as bullshit blood money. Oh, good. Good. Always good. Because the senseless man Shanghai aboard ships were frequently blood soaked. The waterfront way wait, wait, wait, wait. Don't don't you rush by this blood part. So they will. Well, because of the because of plan C, they're vlogging. Yeah, the beatings. Okay. All right. The waterfront along San Francisco's Barbary Coast was one of the most dangerous areas in San Francisco since the beginning of the gold rush in addition to regulation night stick and pistol usually carried every policeman assigned waterfront duty sported a footlong knife. Now we're now we're in Saudi Arabia. That's a sword. By the way, that's a sword. Several battles occurred where residents of the Barbary Coast had their hands chopped off by skillful police. What is going on alleys and streets by the waterfront were packed with saloons brothels and boarding houses catering to sailors. Although most boarding houses at bar rooms sailors often traveled uptown to the dives of the Barbary Coast for entertainment. The Santa that California why would you go there if you're a sailor. Yeah, but you just go you know what a good time. Look, look, just don't go to a mile. It just don't cry like it's very you know, they all thought they all thought like well I'm wise to this all I know how to handle this I can take care of this guy seems cool. I'm gonna have a drink from him. My head, my clothes, my life. Although most boarding houses at bar rooms are so is often traveled uptown. The California police cassette had already warned the public about the strict nine whiskey used by bars to snare their prey. The saloons that great names the nymphia the so different the fierce grizzly fat doreties the crutch nigger the saloons that the saloons were not all of those crimped or sailors many were just men who didn't know better. Like William Davis. He was Shanghai and his granddaughter wrote this account. He left the lejo and left us there to go to San Francisco to look for work around the and the sailors boarding houses and saloons. And he was drinking a ship was bound out for Europe and they were short of carpenters. So they say not Shanghai him drunk and loaded him on the ship. And when he sobered up, they were six days out on the ocean bound for the first few days. So there's like no way that they could ever like once they want this is like taken. Yeah, except there's no phones. Right. And there's no particular set of skills. Barney listen to me very carefully. You're naked. Excuse me. Yeah, I know. I can't do anything. Sorry, I've been calling a lot. He'd went right to voicemail a bunch. Anyway, you're fucked. So so you wake up six days into she woke up six days into the voyage. So we were left and we never knew where he was right so then the people your family but not you're just gone. Well, that's the thing about being drugged and thrown on a ship is there's not time for goodbyes. Grandpa Davis showed up after nine years and wanted to mother to take him back. He was then an old man and when he told and he told the story of his wanderings, how they shanghite him how the ship was shipwrecked in the Bay of Biscay off the coast of Spain how he was picked up by a ship bound for Malaga, Spain, how he sailed for England and then to Canada and then to California looking for us then to Logan and found us but Grandma would not take him in so he left. Oh, that's just such a life. That's a man's life. It's just a yeah. There were a number of one on crimson San Francisco one one was horseshoe brown who would hit sailors over the head with a horseshoe. Oh, cool. I was hoping his nickname was attached to violence. Honest Arnold got his name because he never told the seller the truth. Calico Jim was known for having shanghite as many as six policemen who come to investigate him. What shanghite cops. Yeah. Man, I'll tell you mate. I understand everything you're saying. Well, let's have a shot and get to the bottom of this. Huh. Okay, that sounds all right. Cheers. There you go. Hey, all right. Hey, grab this horseshoe. What's that for? There was Amazonian mother Bronson. Sure. Wasting was huge. My Amazonian. Yeah. She was apparently so powerful that she could anesthetize a crewman with her bare hands. And miss pick up. She ran a boarding house that specialized in a drink of gin brandy whiskey and opium. Okay, here's the thing. Let's go. If you're a sailor, just don't drink. Or maybe you don't care. Like, what am I going to fucking do? Go up and dig for rocks? I like being naked with salt spam. No, no, no. You definitely, like, you eliminate most of your, you'll be fine if you don't go to a saloon. Look, I came here from Ireland. Just don't go to a saloon. There are no potatoes. Just don't go into the saloon. So don't mind being on a board with those orange meats. You will lose your family and life. Don't go into the saloon. God damn it. But Pete and Marty on the boat. No, Pete and Marty are dead. All right, I'll just do one. Mother of God. Of all the crimps in San Francisco's Barbary Coast, one man's villainy earned him the label King of the Crimps. James Kelly was known simply as Shanghai Kelly. He was a short, thick man with a wild red beard and red hair and a horrific temper. Kelly was born in Ireland. We didn't have to say that. No, no, it's clear. In 1820 and Mades, Made in California in 1848, no one really knew where in Ireland he was from and he wasn't big on details. Kelly specialized in the long trip, hence the name Shanghai. Waking up on a boat headed for Alaska or the Cook Islands was one thing, but waking up on a ship headed for Shanghai meant years of your life was gone. These were the worst ships with the most undesirable voyages. Kelly set himself up in business sailors boarding house at 33 Pacific Street, the heart of the Barbary Coast. It was a ramshackle three story building put up on stilts because when the tide came in, water swept right under the house and lapped at the front door. Shanghai would send out his runners to ships who would induce them with promises of women and liquor. If his runner got a sailor to abandon ship, it was a double win. He now got money for getting the sailor on the next ship and a vacancy had been created on another one. Oh boy. So if they get a guy off a ship, you've created a job. And they put that guy on another ship and now that captain needs a guy. It's fucking supplying to me. And you just have to get a new guy off another ship. Kelly was also plugging holes in the dam. Yeah. Kelly was an innovator. He invented the opium cigar. Oh God. He had cigars made in Chinatown where the drug was rolled into the cigar with tobacco. That way, even when a wary sailor who insisted on pouring his own drinks could be drugged when he was offered a good smoke. It was called a Shanghai smoke. Kelly's knockout specialty drink was schnapps with beer spiked with opium, lotonym and chlorohydrate. What? It sounds like the subway bread. As the list goes on and on, they're more like periodic elements. If the sailor managed to be standing, he got the standard knock on the skull. And speed was important to Shanghai Kelly. This is because ship captains often became desperate for crewmen at the last minute when members of the crew failed to show up. No, not necessarily even failed to show up. We're drugged and thrown on another ship probably. So while he is a crimper, he is like a specialty crimper because he can get the last minute crew. Yeah. He's like the fast food of Shanghai. Yeah. Because of this, Kelly had three trapdoors installed in front of his bar. Whoa, this is not good. Trap, legitimate trapdoors. This might be my first reality dose of trapdooring. So I felt like this was fairly invented. Okay, continue it. When a crewman was needed quickly, Kelly would maneuver the man to the correct place in the bar while the bartender poured him a spiked cocktail. Then, just as the sailor seemed to be losing consciousness, Kelly would signal someone who would trip the trapdoor. The victim then fell directly into a boat waiting below and a runner would take him out to a ship. Oh my God. I mean... Don't look at me innocent. He's like the Henry Ford of crimping. The man was often injured by the fall. But he had a nice long sea voyage ahead of him to recover. What do you need better than doctors always say, you don't get out by the ocean. Yeah, no, they always say get saltwater around it. If the combination of the drug and the fall had killed him, Kelly would still not lose his commission. The dead man would be wrapped in a blanket and sold to the ship's captain as a doping victim. Captains often would not figure out he was dead. Oh my God. No. This is very dark. Well, check your produce before you... It's like the Monty Python bit in Holy Grail. You look at him, the eggs when you're at the store. I mean, this man looks like he's dead. I'm not going to pay for this. This is a dead man. He's fine. This guy's fine? He'll wake up. He doesn't have a pulse. I put an extra dose in there, but he'll come around. Listen, if I swear to God, if I get out there again and I'm dealing with another goddamn corpse, I'm not going to be back for two years, so it's hard for me to get revenge. The latest medical research says that a pulse is not necessary. He's blue. Yes, his name's Blue Tommy. Alright, take the money. God damn it, Blue Tommy's dead! Shanghai Kelly became a legend in San Francisco. See, I was a return and attempt to exact revenge against Kelly, but would most often find themselves once again Shanghai. Oh no, that has to be the worst. When you spend three years on a ship, the whole time all you're doing is like, when I get back there, I'm going to get that fuck. Kelly I'm here for you, thunk. Oh God, where are we going? You know, I've actually reformed myself since I did that to you. Please, accept my apology and have a drink, a little bit to the left. Please. A little further to the left. Just a touch more to the left. Alright, have the drink. Trip it! What? He's dead. So, there were legal remedies though. A small and disreputable band of bar hopping lawyers began filing legal suits for victimized sailors. On what grounds? Against Kelly and the ship owners. Whenever a judgment was handed down in a sailor's case, the attorney took his fee, which he would then share with Kelly. Hmm. So, he set up. Sorry. So, here's what Kelly did. Kelly brought some lawyers in who would then take these guys who were coming in saying, I got Shanghai'd! And then they would go to court and then he would win a judgment and the ship's owner would pay and then Kelly would just take the money. Good. In 1851, the San Francisco police made an effort to stop Shanghai'd. Uh-huh. This was done under Crescent Captain Edgar Walker. But it was not successful at all. Whenever a policeman was assigned to water from patrol, he'd disappear. That's just crazy. Kelly's career reached its pinnacle in the early 1870s. A convoy of three ships sent word by a runner boat as they passed the Feralon Islands that they were horribly short of crew from disease and dissection. Together, the ships needed around 100 men to get back to full strength. No. No. One of the ships was named the reefer and was legendary for the harshness of its command, the dangers of its food, and its filthy living quarters. Kelly came into the neighborhood and saw that the pickings were scarce. With hardly any ships in port and a bunch of regulars in the saloon, it wasn't looking good. But 100 men was a huge commission. Then he came up with what is considered the greatest crimping scan of all time. Oh boy. Kelly cleaned out his till, took the money, and chartered a paddle wheel steamer called the Goliath for two days. Then Kelly declared that he was throwing himself a birthday party. Oh no. No one questioned the timing because he never told anyone much about himself. So I'm having a birthday party. Didn't you have one just like a... Listen, everybody should come. Come on down. Bring your male friends. Guys only. Yeah, just strong fellas only. No one questioned the timing because... Kelly sent word all over the waterfront that a huge bash was going to take place on the Goliath with free food and booze. He was just saying thank you to everyone who helped him over the years. Oh no. But all but the most suspicious men got on the Goliath. Pimp's con men beggars cutthroats. After a hundred or so menron ship, Kelly gave the signal and out to see it went. No. Kelly had stalked the ship with Rahm and Whiskey, free food and his own bartenders. The drinking got underway immediately as the ship passed under the Golden Gate the party was well on. Men started stumbling and collapsing all over the ship. By the time the Goliath reached the reefer and its companion ships, Kelly was ready to make his deal and unload the victims. He made several thousand dollars and sailed back to San Francisco Bay. What a fucking dick. But then he realized he had a problem. Almost everyone knew about the birthday bash and now he's returning with a mostly empty ship. He thought about waiting for nightfall and returning in the darkness. But then a ship came that a ship called the Yankee Blade had hit an underwater rock and was taking on water. He quickly changed course and headed for the Yankee Blade. He rescued everyone on the ship. Then gave them all the food and booze and when the Goliath came back to its birth, a bunch of drunken men stumbled off the ship and into the bars of San Francisco. Too late to be Shanghai'd. Wow. That's fucking, I mean he must, what a fucking asshole. Our hero, our hero. Mom, I'm just doing what God wanted me to. He wasn't the only Shanghai Kelly. There was also Joseph Kelly or Bunko Kelly. In Portland, Oregon, he was known for its dangerous port as much as San Francisco. Portland had an underground, the city's network of so-called Shanghai tunnels, which tourists today are often told were used to spirit unsuspecting men, perhaps lured by a half-naked prostitute to an establishment where they were drugged and kidnapped toward their final destination. By his count, some 2000 souls owe their time to see because of Joseph Kelly. Jesus. Kelly spent his early life on the sea and his memoir, he wrote of once being shipwrecked on an island of Madagascar, rescued from the shipwrecked by the natives, Kelly was fed soup. Afterwards, he looked into the clay jug that stored the rest of the stew and discovered the right hand of one of his shipment. Ahh. Typhoon struck, he and some other sailors followed the lead of a man described as an old pirate and escaped from the rescuers. They were promptly picked up by pirates. Fortunately, Kelly and his band managed to lock the pirates in the ship's belly before heading ashore to India. In 1879, Kelly got off a ship in Portland. About three-fifths of all sailors who arrived in Astoria or Portland ditched their ships. Kelly took up the trade of crimping and became so good at it that Stuart Holbrook, who was a rough writer back then, who specialized in selling Portland history, described him as, quote, an artist for the magnificent imagination he applied to his occupation was nothing short of creative. Nothing short of creative. According to Holbrook, one October, while looking for semen for a ship leaving the next morning, Kelly went through his usual stops on Skid Row, Erickson's Blazers, the Green Ivy, the Senate, and could not find a single man to press into service on a ship. Standing across the street from a cigar store about to give up, Kelly noticed a six-foot tall wooden cedar statue Indian outside. He wrapped the Indian statue in a tarpola. No, no, no. No. Two days later. Is it just me or is that guy a terrible worker? Yeah, but he's giving out cigars. Yeah, it's true. He's got this. I'll tell you what, that guy's cool with cigars, but he won't take orders from anyone. Two days later, the deception was discovered and the sailors threw the statue overboard. The thin salmon fish was... That really says a lot too because that means sometimes they were leaving these dudes wrapped up for two days. Yeah, they would just, like, unmoved. Well, they would just think the guys were gonna come out of there. Yeah, that there was just a naked guy who was eventually gonna hatch. Opium. Just see the little beak poking out through the cloth. This little scam made Kelly $50 and the nickname Bunko turned of the century slang for a con man. Bunko Kelly appeared in newspapers for the first time a few years later in April 1887. A ship's captain wrote to the Oregonian to complain that Kelly had supplied him with a man who was rendered nearly motionless by rheumatism. Kelly's next mention, just three years later in 1890, a local paper described him as the boss Shanghai in the Northwest. His most famous exploit was in 1893 when Kelly was asked to supply the flying prince with 22 men at a rate of $30 per head. Kelly's walking down the street and noticed an open trapdoor on the sidewalk. What? The kind that a business uses without allies, you know, just like an... Oh, okay. Right. Open doors. Okay. I'll try. Yeah. And he entered the... Of course. Hey, what's up? Hey, what's up? What are we doing here? Can I make you guys slaves? Inside, he found 24 men, 10 of whom were dead. What? The group had tried to burgle the cellar of the saloon next door, but had accidentally broken into an undertaker shop instead. The keg they found and tapped was filled with embalming fluid. Uh, what? Kelly took the 14 survivors and 10 corpses to the ship where he was paid for them all. The ship was already heading down the Columbia River when the corpses were discovered. Oh, my God. I... like, the fact that it got even darker, like, kidnapping and ruining lives and drugging people, but now the body switch element. That's good. And really, if you're in charge of these ships, just fucking check. Right, or, you know, write a contract. Kick them. I don't know. Kick them. Kick them real hard. Around this time, Bunko Kelly was arrested, but not for crimping because crimping was legal. J-Walking. Kelly was arrested for allegedly murdering GW Sayers, an opium smuggler who had been hacked to death and thrown in the Willamette River. Kelly had been fond of selling a folk-eight fake opium, which was actually clay to the local Chinese population. Jesus, this guy is real full of shit. He allegedly lured Sayers out of his home with promises of a scheme to raise about $200 by selling fake opium. Then he beat Sayers to death. Before Kelly was sentenced to life in prison, he declared his innocence and blamed the death on a framed job by other crimps. And Kelly may have been telling the truth. He had been working for Larry Sullivan, a prize fighter turned crimp, and he was listed as a clerk at Sullivan's Sayers home at 113 North 2nd Street. By September 1894, though, Kelly had broken away from Sullivan and gone into business with someone else, renting a flop house that was used as a boarding house on B Street. Sullivan was not pleased with this turn of events. Three days before the murder, Sullivan, Kelly, and two other men were taken to jail for what the local news reported was a lively street fight. Uh-huh. As opposed to one of those real tame street fights. While Kelly maintained his innocence, his story often varied. Sometimes he was being framed by Sullivan. Other times he had been hired by a Portland attorney to kidnap Sayers because he was pursuing a case against one of the attorney's clients. It took a jury 12 hours to find Kelly guilty of murder in the second degree. While in prison, Kelly wrote the memoirs, the memoir 13 years in the Oregon State Penitentiary, in which he claims to have fought in the American Civil War, a Cuban uprising, and in Chile, where Kelly says he was part of a regular monthly effort to overthrow the government. A month monthly? Yeah. The government's got to be like, all right, it's the 28th. Let's do this. We're going to try to overthrow us again. Um, so the book didn't sell well. By the time Kelly was released in 1908, he'd been largely forgotten. He made an appearance that same year in San Francisco when a report in the San Francisco call stated that he was working for gang boss Abe Roof, who was on trial for bribery. Well, Bunko Kelly, another undesirable who openly reports to Roof's office boy, Charlie Hagerty, during recesses of the court was also present after a book tour in Seattle the following year. He wasn't heard for heard from again. The big problem with these characters is they there's hardly any actual real record of their doings. Bunko Kelly was because they weren't that open. Yeah. And then Bunko Kelly was supposed to be from Liverpool, but he was actually from Connecticut. There's no, there's no record of the cigar store, Indian. There's some newspaper reports, but there's no like police. Right. The good thing is this is all legal. So there's no how the fuck is it legal? But there are the stories that are reported reported over and over and they've been published in Shanghai is totally legal. Yeah. Now, Kelly does appear in court records. Debt, though he apparently remained in partnership with him. The story in the Oregonian in 1889 recounts complaints of a Samoan sailor who said Kelly locked him in a room when Kelly couldn't find a ship that would readily take him. I mean, that's insane. Sorry, I'm just trying to find the situation to totally fuck you hasn't emerged yet. Just give me 15 minutes. Yeah. So there you go. Well, that's fucking insane. Shanghai. Unbelievable. It was a good time. And they had and the government had to sanction it because they needed cargo to come in and it's like illegal immigration right now. Yeah. They needed the ships they needed. They needed it. So they just let them be abused and they knew they had to be kidnapped and it was a total fucking disaster. Jesus Christ. God bless America. Okay. Everybody feel weird? Yeah. Yeah, we do. We feel weird.