 Oh, welcome to the dollop. This is a by weekly podcast. It's about American history each week. I, Dave Anthony, read a story from American history to my friend. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about. Why not? Because they're fucking crazy. God, you want to look who to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave, okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to become the tickly clock. Oh, yeah. You are queen fakie of made up town. All hail queen shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? I'm afraid. Hi, Gary. No. Is he dead, my friend? No. No. Gary. Gareth. Gary, do you have anything to... It's Gareth. We've had our fun. We've had our fun. The name is Gareth. G-A-R-E-T-H. I was told it was a night at the round table. Turns out he was at something called the alternate table. But that's my fucking name. Do you know why he was at the alternate table? Because he wouldn't say his name the right way. No. No. That's bullshit. I think that's exactly what it was. The idea that he was like, sir, Gary, would you like a seat at the table? And he's like, it's sir, Gareth. They're like, have fun at the child's table for Gary. June 11th, 1864. Jesus Christ. Owen Kildare was born to poor immigrants in the fourth ward at the lowest end of the bowery in New York City. His Irish father died three months before he was born and his French mother died during childbirth. Okay, so right off the bat, a good hand has been dealt to him. Yeah, so this is going to go well. Yeah. Good. An Irish couple took baby Owen in. They were the McShanes. Okay. They paid $6 a month for two tiny rooms, up six flights in a Catherine Street tenement. The woman was kind, but Mr. McShane, a longshoreman, was a mean drunk. That's so weird that a longshoreman would be a mean drunk. Well, McShane, too, that name doesn't make me think drinking. No, not at all. As he grew, they gave Owen chores like taking out the family coal bucket to pick up any loose nuggets laying around on the docks where the coal boats were unloaded. You know, times aren't that different. If you think about it. I mean, Finn did go to kindergarten, but after kindergarten is done at 1230, we give him the coal bucket. He's got to go. He can't come back and tell us for the coal. Yeah. Nothing. You go out there and you'll go pick up the spare pieces of coal down by the docks or they dropped off now. Or there's no fire for you, lad. Take the coal bucket. Otherwise, you won't be playing baseball on Saturday. Owen was also given the task. This is when he was six. Six? Of carrying Mr. McShane's beer pail to and from the nearest saloon. Pail? Is that how it worked? Is that like a corking fee back then? There's just like a pail tax? Okay. So at this time, bars were men only. So in fourth place... The way it should be. I'll tell you, the one thing I always hate is when I go to a bar and see a bunch of girls. Yeah. Ruinin' the boys' club. What a drink with bros. And this was probably like the most homophobic time and yet they're still like, dude's hang with dudes. So at this time, the bars were men only. So in fourth, waters chose to drink and mix company, meaning their wives. Uh-huh. They held impromptu parties on rooftops and front stoopes of their tenements. They were called growler parties, can rackets, or mixed ale camps. Can rackets is the winner. So young Owen would ferry the pails of beer back and forth from a bar to the party. At six? At the time this was considered a child's job. So, okay, so he was basically just getting refills? Yeah, he was going and getting refills. Just going a six-year-old. They don't allow women in bars, but six-year-olds can go in. That's not an issue. The job was known as rushing the growler. Because hurry the fuck up, kid. Hurry the fuck up with the growler. Growler was slang for the pail. It's not like we think of beer now, like a bunch of bottles in a bucket. Yeah. It's a two-court galvanized pail full of beer. The pails would be hung on a stick. So a kid would be running with two sticks with like four pails of beer on each. There's a little notch and the beer and the handle would go in the notch. You run it down the street with eight things of beer. Eight pails. Jesus. I mean, I just imagine the filth inside of those buckets. Good God. It's like a toilet seat. The growler term came from the constant conflict between the bartender who was filling the pail and the customer who wanted a full pail. Okay, that makes sense. The kid who had this job had to rush back and forth because young teens called growler gangs often stopped them taking their cash on the way to the bar or their beer on the way back. So wait, a gang of older kids would stop a six-year-old and take his beer? Yeah. Okay. I mean, it's just like, that's a little bit like, if you take the filth out of it, it sounds kind of like a fun time. It's a little bit like Mad Max. Right. Make it a run. Try to get there. Right. Later as the moral police called for prohibition to kick in, pressure was put on local law officials to enforce laws concerning minors buying beer. Yeah. Not only minors, children, six-year-olds. And exposs of the bucket boys and girls were a feature of many newspapers of the era. Hey, what the fuck is wrong with us? Hey, why are we getting kids beer? So at age seven, Owen had enough of abuse from McShane and he left home. At the age of seven? Yeah. This was a different time. But still, this is seven-year-old's brain at this time ready to go like, you know what, it's just not working out with parents. I fucking had it with you. I'm out of here. Well, he's probably been drinking for four years already. Oh my God. He slept in doorways and sidewalk grades and finally fell in with a gang of newsies led by little Tim Sullivan. Okay. Little Tim was the cousin of Big Tim Sullivan, a future Tammany Hall giant. If people don't know Tammany Hall, his Tammany Hall was basically a political hall that ran New York for years. Right. In America, there's this iconic idea of the newsy for movies where we see cute young newsies and wait a minute, if you're going to shatter my image of a newsy on this podcast, I'm afraid I might have to stop you. What do you think a newsy is? Oh, adorable children. Adorable children with song in their heart and gusto in their step. All they want to do is pass on the day's headlines to the businessmen that they idolize. Meanwhile, make a penny or two. Sing a song, date's around, grab a lamppost, scare a dame. Yeah, well, that's exactly what it is. Oh, okay. They're cute young kids and all on calling out the day's headlines and getting their first taste of entrepreneurship. Yeah. But the life was actually brutal. Being a newsy back then was like being a child gladiator. Sorry. This was obviously before labor laws. Many of them were recent immigrants who abandoned school to make pennies a day to keep their family afloat. Many more simply lived on the streets. They slept in darways or parks or stole smoke and stole smokes and booze. Are you enjoying the picture on paint? Disney was right to cut this part out of the movie. I painted a picture of like children hobos. Yeah, children hobos. Basically like I'm picturing that Malaysian three year old who was like smoking cigarettes, like a bunch like that sort of world. Thankfully, the newspaper industry liked things the way they were so they could print the opposite when people tried to get these kids a better life. I mean, really? Who are you going to fuck with? The most disturbing fact of a newsy life was it was one of pure violence. The young boys used their fists to defend their papers, their pennies and their corners. They often started brawling as young as six years old. In News Alley, where the boys gathered to pick up their copies of the paper, they learned how to battle other young newsies for the bonus free copies given away by the newspapers each day. Jesus. So they're like drug dealers in Baltimore fighting over corners. But these are papers and they're seven. Yeah, but they're seven. Right. So little Tim Sullivan staked Owen a nickel and handed him a stack of papers to sell. Like most newsies, Owen couldn't read and didn't have much hope of ever learning how to at this point. But ironically, he was selling papers. What is it? I mean, that ruins the extra a little bit. A little bit extra extra. I got no idea. Extra extra big black letters. Extra extra. We're all illiterate. It's kind of sad. He hawked his papers around City Hall. Luckily, Owen was a big kid and he was good with his fists. He soon fought his way to the top of the newsy heap. Whoa. And like a lot of newsies, this led to boxing. Sure. Sure. Quote, it's the gateway occupation. It is a gateway. Yeah. Yeah. Quote, I was I was of large frame. My face was a bulldog type. My muscles were strong. My constitution hardened by my outdoor existence and all sorts of weather. And without knowing it, my advance in the art of fisticuffs was eagerly watched with the hope of discovering me a new dark horse for the prize ring. So guys would watch the newsies fight and then pick them as they got older, pick them up. Oh my God. Isn't that what should happen today? I'm not against what you're pitching. But that is amazing. Like the newspaper industry was where you scouted boxers. It's just pretty weird. To continue among the men who followed my progress in boxing were such renowned sports as Steve Brody, Warren Lewis, Faddy Flynn and Pop Kaiser. In due time, overtures are made to me. I was properly tried out on several third rate boxers and said goodbye to the newsy life to blossom out as a full fledged pugilist. Oh shit. Before long, I began to have higher ambitions. It was the day of smaller purses and more fighting. And I determined to fight often so I could accumulate money quickly. I had some dim desire to wanting to have a lot of it, having the sensation of being the possessor of a roll of bills. And this being the only road open to me for that goal, I was eager to travel it. Makes sense. By his teen years, he was fighting in barrel knuckle boxing matches in front of the men. Amazing that you just said in his teen years after all the shit you just said. You're like, what? He's not 40? Yeah, no, in my head, like the calendar, you know, the days are dropping off the calendar, the years are rolling by. We're meeting our boy as a man. 50. 12 and a half. All right, so he's fighting in bare knuckle boxing matches in front of the men and gamblers who partied in horde on the Bowery. The fights were held in saloons and halls like champions rest. Champions best and Bill Mcglory's Armory Hall on Hester Street. The Armory Hall was the favorite gaunt of gangsters of the fourth and six wards in the Bowery. One of the thieves picked pockets and knockout drop artists who floor us throughout the city. Rarely a night went by without a half dozen gory fights. And it was not unusual to see a drugged and drunken reveler. His pockets turned inside out by the waiter girls who had fawned upon him just minutes before being dragged from a table by one of Mcglory's bouncers and tossed into the street. Good time. There his pockets were searched again. Frequently, they stripped the victim of his clothing and left him naked in the gutter. Why would you ever go back? If you heard if I heard that just once a tan, I'd be like, no fucking way. I won't go there. What? How was it? Well, a guy died in the ring. The waitresses robbed me and then the bouncers took my clothes and I couldn't get home. I was wasted. That sounds awesome. It does not sound awesome. Can we go tomorrow? Fuck no. Mcglory's is also well known for its transvestite male hookers. Yeah. Oh, here we go. Who made it one of the best known places in town for homosexual account encounters. Oh, so we are. Okay. Mcglory employed half a dozen males who wore feminine clothing and circulated through the crowd singing and dancing. Music was provided by piano, a cornet and violin. So dudes are just going there to fuck dudes just like ladies. And there's hundreds of people there and no one is, if people are upset by it, they wouldn't allow it. But everyone's just like, yeah, how about it? He's not fucking a dude. Oh, it's a dude dressed like this. They're ladies with dicks. And there were the exhibition fights. Mcglory's place was entered from the street through a dingy double doorway, which led to a long narrow passageway with halls painted dead black and no light. 50 feet down the passage was the bar room. And beyond that, the dance hall with chairs and tables for around 700 people. Jesus. A balcony ran two sides of the hall with small boxes partitioned off by heavy curtains and reserved for the best customers. Generally parties of out of town men who appeared to be willing to spend considerable money. Drinks were served by waiter girls. So you understand what that means? Yeah. So up top there are tourists watching the film. Right. It's kind of like the box seats. Yeah. But they're not there to enjoy. They're there to just watch the. Right. They just want to watch the show behind the show. Yeah. Yeah. The fights might go only a few rounds, but the ones that attracted serious wagers were long and brutal. They would last until one of the fighters could no longer stand. Sometimes more than 40 rounds. What? Are they 10 second rounds? 40 rounds? They were actual rounds. They're spent many nights fighting in the ring, busting knuckles, shredding ears and gashing eyes. Weapons were banned, but any other pleasantries like biting, clawing, choking, gouging were not only allowed, but really essential. The fight didn't end until one guy was unconscious or begged off. Jesus. So Owen enjoyed fame as a winning boxer on the Lower East Side, but his downfall on the ring was a terrible temper. He would always listen to the instructions given before a fight and adhere to them for two or three rounds. Then he would lose his shit. All the rules instructions, time limits would go out the window and he would attack with deadly determinations to do his opponent in at all costs. This led to defeats, but also fame. But is he legit boxing or he's doing this sort of? I mean this isn't really, this sounds more like cage fighting. They're punching, but they also are trying to do whatever the fuck they can. Like they're just, it's just animal fights. Yeah, right. Which is, right, fun. His temper was known to have been matched by one boxer out at Pittsburgh named Tommy Gibbons. Red Hot Tommy. Red Hot Tommy. Tommy Red Hats. Holy shit Tommy's ready for one. Oh boy. It'll take you out of one. Got Tommy's pissed again. Knowing it would be a great match, he was paid to go to Pittsburgh and fight Gibbons. Okay. He had never been defeated in his own state and the promoters were anxious to find a more vicious brute than he to vanquish him. I was chosen for the mission. We weighed in at 140 pounds. Wow. We were nine. I know he had to have been like, he's mid teens and he's 140 pounds. This encounter lasted 27 seconds. 27 rounds. Oh god. 27 rounds. Much different. The humanity of our seconds and backers prevented us from going any further. Our physical condition was the cause for stirring that humanity. We were smeared with blood, a broken arm, a torn ear, a gash from eye to the lower part of the cheek constituted Tommy Gibbons injuries. I was damaged to the extent of two broken thumbs and a broken nose, not to mention minor disfigurements. I don't think you can use minor before disfigurements in this. They fought three more times. What? Over the, you know, the second fight went 17 rounds. The third went 43 rounds and the fourth just 11 rounds and that fight could there knock Gibbons out. Wow. Gibbons never recovered from the defeat mentally. He ended up killing a man and being executed. Oh. While Owen was a celebrity in the fourth ward. Okay. Owners of saloons and dives encouraged him to come drink at their spots because he'd draw fans in. Yeah. Appearances. The owners also invited famous hoods, gangsters and ex-cons for the same reason. Taurus would come to see the saloons and the disturbing characters that hung out there and killed there was a perfect match. His favorite hangout was Chickery Hall, a horrific basement dive at Bowery and East 4th Street. Originally it had been a bake shop but after being unoccupied for years a coffee merchant rented it to prepare his Chickery there. Okay. Only one man worked there, Tom Nosley. He just happened to enjoy sporting proclivities. All right. Back then meeting a boxer was a big, big, big deal. So young Tom decided to invite a bunch of boxers down to the Chickery for a drink and the pugilist came to rush the growler. Quote, our first call at the cellar convinced us of its many attractions. It seemed just the place for an ideal hangout. Then also there was Tom Nosley's weekly stipend of $18 a week which he was willing to spend to the last cent for the furthering of sport. Okay. So it's just a guy who got a job in a place making coffee and then he just invited a bunch of boxers in to hang out and drink. Yeah. Right. Sounds like a good business model. It's very clear what you're doing. Very clear of what your goal is. Tom just didn't like boxers. He was also a fan of men who had spent time in prison. Men had a reputation for crookedness and men who made a living without working. Okay. So this place is not going to be. It's going to be great. It's not going to be great. It's going to be great. I don't have a good feeling. And they're all drinking and they're violent people? Yeah. Okay. And they're in one spot? Yeah. Okay. Small spot, a little tiny spot. Yep. Small spot. Very violent. Four small windows covered with impenetrable dirt led a little bit of light in. At night one dim flame from gas gave off a sort of weird glow to the filthy hole. Is the dog growling? Yeah. That's weird. I think it hurt growler. I think it's growling at the beach. Shortly after establishing their headquarters at Chickery Hall, Owen and his friends chose the storage room as their sleeping chamber. Oh boy. Taking the unwieldy, making unwieldy couches from the heavy, unclean bags. Ugh, God. Owen was often found sleeping in the back room where he would spend days and nights there quote feasting on many pounds of raw meat and drinking gallons of beer. Oh my God. What? Sweet God. He has access to the street. It's not like this is a bunker and there was like a meteor hit earth. Just sitting down there just fucking pounding raw meat, sleeping and just guzzling booze? He's living the life, man. Dude. And he's just got like little slits of light popping in every now and then? Well, it's like walks out and fights someone. Yeah, just beat the fuck out of someone, go eat a pound of raw meat. Quote, certainly we had conveniences, a front room and a bedroom. What more could we desire? Luxury. Oh my God, there's two rooms here. Look at the soys at S. Oh, good boy. But there's another room. Holy shit. What are we going to do? Let's sleep in it and eat meat. We'll call this the meat room. Have we opened other ideas for what we could do? Because we could do other things besides living in a room and just eat meat. Ultrache beer. Right, but like I mean we could do something like totally different. Ultrache beer and eat meat and sleep. Right, alright. And maybe I'll punch Fred. Right, besides lovely. Quote, we appreciated it. Did not I myself spend ten entire days and nights in trickery hall without ever leaving it? Oh my God. What's the smell so bad? Oh God. The fucking smell. Doesn't sound like it had a shower. The smell, smell hall. A smell hall. Oh. I mean, then when they open that back room you're like, my God. What's in there raw meat? Oh my God. Smells like rotting hobos and meat. Yeah, it's nice, right? If you want to take a nap back there feel free, there's an extra pillow and by pillow I mean meat. They're just sleeping on the meat. The rest of his crew were boxers. The regulars included Jerry Slattery, the Limerick Terror, Rags, Mike Ryan, the Montana Giant, Tom Green and his brother Patsy Green, Charlie Carroll and Owen. Wait, the Limerick Giant? The Limerick Terror. The Limerick Terror? He's got a gentleman's name and a Rags and the Montana Giant. But the Limerick guy. The Limerick Terror is a good one. That's tough. That's tough. Yeah. Those are hard to write. They really are. Yeah, I mean he's like, fuck, what did I just call myself something about rhyming? There once was a man from a dragon. Ah shit. There once was a boxer who wasn't taught, so he decided instead he'd would fought. His other men that he lived with inside of a fuck could not have it again. There once was a man who had cold feet, so he lived in a locker full of meat. His friends all smelled bad because they had had a fuck. I lost it again, fuck. On Saturdays, Tom's payday, two or three of the boxers would accompany Tom to pick up his pay. Then they'd go get meat and beer and that's how the weeks went. Those are not good details. Those are the good days. Those are not good days. The good days. I just hope the meat was wrapped up. And the fact that you're making weekly trips to pick up meat, raw meat, not good. It also became a big destination for uptown slumbers who came to watch the locals. Their fancy horse drawn calves and carriages lined the filthy block. Excuse me, where's the shit hole? I'd like to see the fuck dirty people. Excuse me, where are the pig pigs, filthy pig people? I want to see the grotesque ones. Bring me to them. Is there a small place with meat and coffee? As a matter of fact, I can smell my way there. It's this way, isn't it? Oh, it's terrible. Oh, good lord, it's getting worse. This is going to be lovely. I'm excited. The Lower East Side had long attracted such fancy people, but it really boomed as a destination place toward the end of the 1800s, bored silly by the strictures of late Victorian manners, feeling increasingly isolated from the real world behind the curtains of their brownstones, uptowners flock downtown to see how the lower class lived their horrific lives. Wow. Look at these shit people. You know, it's almost marvelous. It's almost like reality shows. It is like reality shows. That's exactly what it's like. Yeah, I just want to, the rich people just want to watch the scum. Yeah. Oh, cool. I can't even imagine. Oh, do you see how they live? It's awful. This one says she's honey boo boo. In Greenwich Village, they crowded into bistros and spaghetti houses, hoping to catch glimpses of authentic artists and bohemians. At Chickery Hall, gentile ladies and gentlemen sat on cheese boxes, crippled chairs, upturned pales and flower barrels, and other makeshift seats, staring as Owen and others put on fights in an impromptu arena for them, which quote for ferocious, ferociousness and bloody stubbornness had never been beaten, it was said. The men drew a circle with chalk near the stairs. That's where the tourists were expected to put money, and then the fighters would provide whatever amount of entertainment the money was worth. So they just put a circle on the floor and then they put money in there and they'd be like, oh, that's that's two rounds. Oh, look, I'll fight him, but not with my hands. Yeah, I'm gonna fight Owen with my feet. But kick fight. You know, I'll take on the Limerick terror, but just with me pinkies. Did someone say the Limerick terror? There once was a man with a bad nickname, who always can't, god damn it! These are hard to fucking write. Very hard. Why did I pick Limerick? That's a shit one. Fucking hey. Now have you talked to Haiku Harry? He's doing his own fucking head in back there. Haiku Harry's botched his fucking head in. The door was always kept shut and there was no ventilation. No! I mean, they had to keep it shut because it was illegal, but that's the most horrifying statement that's ever been read on this podcast. It's more illegal to die in meat funk. It's not. God, who is signing off on all of this? Oh shit. I went outside, came back in, the damn meat funk is something else. Something else mate. Fucking hey. Maybe we should open a window or... Don't open that fucking window. You leave that window closed. Don't let anyone smell out. Owen Kildare's reputation as a fighter increased at the chiquiri. He became known as a man who would fight anyone or anything and they all came... Anything is funny. And he fought them. And he fought this toyer. Beat up the toyer. There you go, here's a poll. How about it? Beat up this pair of puns. Fight these puns. They throw the pants at him. Fuck you puns. At one point he was set to take on Mickey Davis who was the champion rough and tumble fighter of New York. These were the conditions of their meeting. They were to be locked in the back room with the privilege of using any means of defeating each other besides weapons. What? The first man who begged to have the door unlocked and to be taken from the room was the loser. Oh my god. Is that even fun to watch? Well no one got to watch it. So what is the point that you just hear the screaming and... Oh it sounds like they're really beating the fuck out of each other. And then one guy comes out all bloody and you go, oh shit, Mickey Davis took one there. Oh boy, oh boy. Mickey Davis was the man who came to the door. These fights went on for some time and Owen remained the champion. He's the best back room fighter in the fucking business. You close the door and he stays in every fucking time. What if he's just given him a bunch of meat? Wait, now I'm gonna give you a bunch of free meat. Go ahead and rub that on yourself. And then in five minutes beg to come out. Yeah, you come out. Let's just scream now. Owen's a tough one now. Yeah, alright. You good? Cool. You like corned beef? Cause none of this is corned. I mean, it's not corned when it comes into the place but it's somehow it gets corned and just bringing it through the room. Do you like pillow fuck meat? That one's soft. I've slept on it for four days. And I've actually been dating this boil of meat. You know, to be honest, we don't leave here except for Mondays. So we've been fucking and sleeping on the meat a lot, eating the meat. Yeah, don't care what kind of meat it is. We're trying to find something the meat can't do. We only know the generic term meat. We don't know what it is. We don't care to know what it is. Could be the cow's asshole. No, don't care. Just gonna eat it. Just gonna eat that fucking meat. And fuck it. I mean, this one out to brunch. By brunch, I mean I'm going into the front room and having a beer. By brunch, I mean, I'm gonna fuck this and then eat this over there with ale. Oh, in fact, I won't find plenty of other opportunities to put his fighting skills to use. He and his crew were served as Tammany enforcers at the polls on voting days. He was frequently employed by a captain, Boston Hoboken, who he called a notorious gorilla chief. During one heated contest in a small town near Baltimore, the boss shipped 50 men from the ward to help elect his patron. Five Bowery gents in rough and ready wear were stationed near each polling place and induced unwanted voters to keep away from the ballot boxes. Local primaries and conventions, regardless of politics, couldn't do without Owen and his fellow pugilists. One day they would be the tough guys for one candidate and the next election they'd take the same money and turn the tables on that candidate. Excuse me, you're not gonna vote today. Oh, but I... No, you're not gonna vote today. Oh, no, they're not... Get the fuck outta here! Okay, that's good. Quote, Still, we were loyal to our temporary bosses. We offered our strength and brutality in open market. We asked a price and if it was paid, we did our work with a faithfulness worthier of a better cause. That this was so proven, that this was so, is proven by the fact that not only John McCain, the czar of Coney Island, recruited... God, he's really old. I didn't realize he went back that far. Fucking hey. He was none of the czar of Coney Island recruited his police force from among us. But even reputable concerns like the Iron Steambunk Company and others engaged men of our class to preserve order and peace at designated posts. So that's like union busting shit. After a bit, Owen voluntarily gave up the title of champion to close the door room fighter or whatever it was called, the Chickery El. So he stopped that door fighting. He's like, I can't. It's extremely violent and terrible. I'm just tired of being covered in meat. I don't know what this is, this meat or my arm. I don't even know where the meat stops and I start anymore. His reputation offered him other opportunities, that of a bouncer or floor manager. He moved from venue to venue in the Bowery and gained an even bigger name for himself. His fame was increasing. At this point, he thought he was surely on the road to success. Yeah. Well, I mean, he's left the meat room. And now he's a bouncer. So life at the top. He'll be watching the poor in no time. I reasoned the case with myself and drew the following deductions. I was feared because of my brutality. I had more money than ever before. I was wearing well made, if flashy clothes. The grumbling envy of my less fortunate fellows and chums sang like a sweet refrain in my ears. I was strong, vicious and healthy. Why wouldn't I consider myself successful? One night, he saved an Uptown man from a thrashing and was rewarded with a purebred bulldog pup named Bill. Okay, I like this. This was the beginning of the decline of Owen Kildare. Oh, God, what? I dropped the pup at my cot and intended to note how he would take to his new surroundings. First he squatted down and looked at me intently. He came to the edge of the bed and gave me a little wine. I meant to grab him by the neck and throw him to the floor, but when my hand touched him, he felt so soft and warm and well, I patted him. That night I went to the saloon at the custom time and did my duty as well as before. However, at odd moments, I'd think of the little fellow up in my room. What the fuck is going on right now? And as time went by, they became closer. It was a new bewildering sensation to me to perceive a living being to be so pleased at my appearance. It was a new strange welcome, perhaps not entirely unselfish because milk and good things to eat generally came with me, but still much purer and more sincere than the greeting hello or loudmouth invitation to drink by companions. He's enjoying himself a dog. Yeah. How about that? So Newsy's is real. Owen began to spend more time at home because of Bill the dog. What? This is great. What is happening? Is there a feel good story of a dollop? Then he began to fix up the place and make it a home gone where the bare walls were placed with pictures. He would take Bill for walks. Bill had a glittery collar and no one often heard from others on the street, which is the dog. What a bunch of assholes. People are horrible. Yeah. This is about the time reforms swept through the city of New York. Suddenly all the saloons and halls were closed and Owen was a man in search of a job. He found himself at free lunch counters. He also made money taking the slumbers around as a tour guide and bodyguard. So there were still some places open, but most of them were being shut down. One night he did this for three Princeton students, quote, arrayed in yellow and black mufflers and wearing the insignia of their fraternity. They started out at Fatty Flynn's dance hall on Bond Street and wandered to others. Owen was pretty much disgusted with how little they could drink. He warned them about drinking too much as that would ruin the tour, but they were college prep boys and off they went. As they left the Golden Horn, one of the college boys saw a gin mill that was run by a very rough gang. Hey, let's go in here, fellas. Hey, what's bad about this place, nothing? Come on, guys. We got our fraternity sweater, so we'll be okay. Look, we're educated. They'll appreciate that. Owen warned them not to go inside, but they did anyway. All seemed well as the boys treated everyone in the place to drinks. Owen decided it was a good time to go to the bathroom, which I assume was out on the street. Yeah. No, it's in his pants. It literally doesn't move. He's like, I'm going to go to the bathroom. It doesn't move. When he returned, the college boys were surrounded. Oh, God. Turns out one of the gang had slapped one of the boys on the shoulder too hard and the college boy had tried to punch him. Oh, God. What? That's why you don't take college boys into gin mills. That's why you just, if you're going into a gin mill at this time, don't just be really tolerant. Really tolerant. Owen spotted one of the gang with something flashing in his hand and got himself in between the attacker and the college boy just in time to take a knife to the neck. What? He ended up with a three inch cut that put him in the hospital for weeks. The college boy was very thankful and knew that his life had been saved. Having just been kicked out of Princeton, he offered his show, Owen the World. What? What? What the fuck? What? What? This is...what? The Princeton kid took him on a tour of Europe in a minute. Wait, wait, wait. Owen takes a knife to the fucking neck. Yeah. Almost dies. Same kid's life. This kid gets kicked out of school and is like, want to go see Earth? Yeah. Okay. So they went, they toured around Europe in the Mediterranean and then they arrived in Algiers. Oh boy. And that's when Owen learned the kid had spent all of the money that they had and he wired home asking for more. Oh boy. But it did not come. Oh god. So they were stuck in... Straded in Algeria with a fucking stranger who stabbed you in the neck. They enlisted in the Legion of Strangers. What? What is the French for in Legion? Okay. But you offered to show me the world, asshole. Well, you seen it. Yeah. It feels like it's over. They just hit a rough patch. Yeah. The only way out, you know. Yeah. Join the army. They fought in a few skirmishes but they hated being in the hot desert sand and the strange food. So when the time came for them to re-up, they bailed. Actually, I don't know if they were supposed to re-up. I think they just bailed. Just after leaving the garrison of Degde-del-Kur, they learned it had some disastrous encounters with local tribes and had they stayed, they probably would have died. For six weeks, they walked to the desert, avoiding all native villages while at the same time being aided by the occasional random tribesmen. What? It's just like the Bowery. It's just like the Bowery. Man, you know what I'm thinking of right now? What's that? The meat room. Oh shit, Christ. It's just full of meat. The whole fucking thing. And then you beat up a man in there. Beat up a man, fuck the meat. Oh god damn. Eat and sleep on other meat. Oh, we're in the desert. His mirages are like meat rooms. Right up there, I think I see a meat room. Oh my god. Just more sand. Upon reaching the coast, they found a work shoveling coal in a boiler room ship. Full circle. And made it to Marseille. Okay. There, they found the college boy had been sent credit by his parents. And back to New York they went. What a fucking moment that must have been. Hadn't been that gratified since a knife got pulled out of his throat. Owen went straight to Bill who had been moping around the whole time. He was gone and suddenly got his spirit back when he saw his old friend. Okay. So they thought Bill was going to die basically. And then all of a sudden here comes fucking Owen. Yeah. Yeah. The moral crusade against drinking. That would have been a YouTube sensation video. Yeah. Owen returns to Bill. That really would have been a good one. Good lord. The moral crusade against drinking had died down a bit after the prohibitionists had lost local elections. It was a good time in the bowery again. Owen started telling tales of his adventures in bars. This only served to make him more famous in lower Manhattan. There was an ex-Newsy named Steve Brody. The Brooklyn Bridge had just been constructed and people were jumping off of it to their deaths. Someone had bet Brody that he could not jump off the bridge and live to tell the tale. Oh my god. So naturally, Joey took the bet and jumped. I don't know if it's like a technique thing. Hey Brody, I bet you can't jump off that death bridge and live there. Oh I bet I fucking can't. Alright, well let's see you do it. Feed first dummy. Yeah. The bet is just that you can't. Oh. There's no wager. I'm just saying. I don't think you can. I'll take it. His bet ended up making him famous. Because he lived. And led to him funding his own saloon on Bowery at Grand Street. We're talking about a time when you could jump off a bridge to prove that you could live and then you get a saloon. That's about right. Yep, okay. The jump also led to a starring role on the stage. He played himself in the hit 1894 review on the Bowery in which he recreated his jump. He played? Oh yes. Oh, delicious. This is me jumping off the bridge now. He played himself in a play about when he jumped off the bridge. Here I go. I'm jumping. Okay. Okay. It's just a small Apple box, but I jumped a little bit there. Stephen, no, you can't do it. Nobody's brave enough to jump off the bridge and live. I'm afraid, Matilda, I have to. Because if we want the saloon, I have to dig deep. I bet I'll survive. He even sang a few songs in a Bowery accent. I can't believe I live the bridge. I live the bridge jump. My poet is a Bowery girl. She means all the world to me. To pull a Brody became slang for jumping off a bridge and living crazy stunts for doing crazy stuff. It's like a check cast. Yeah, right. Okay. This is where Owen found himself now as his new self, a storyteller. He regaled patrons of the narrow tin ceiling saloon while living in the back room. He was given free drinks by the patrons. This was the perfect job for him as his health still had not fully returned from his trip in Africa. But eventually the patrons at Brody's had heard all of his stories and were done with them. But Owen had the bug. He wanted to fill the void. So he's basically become a comedian. Yeah. And now his first hour is done. He's just recorded his first album. Yeah. And I was like, what else he got? He's like, uh, he's so, uh, I tell you, at the time I was a non-Jew. Yeah, very, um, hold on a minute. I got a bunch of ideas. I've got a dog that I like. Yeah. Who likes dogs? Hey, uh, have you ever accidentally eaten the meat you're fucking? I'm out of, I'm out of ideas. I got nothing. I got nothing. One night the bartender, Johnny Mobile, came into the back room. Say, Kail, you got to do me a favor. Steve is out and they ain't a single solitaire man in the place whom I can introduce to the bunch I got up against the bar. They just came in and are fine spenders, but I'll lose them if you don't do this for me. Turns out Johnny wanted an owner to pretend he was Jack Dempsey, famous boxer Jack Dempsey. Interesting casting. So the spenders would stick around and keep drinking. It was like, is this Jack Dempsey's here? This led to Owen's next job, what? Tending to be celebrity boxers. That's great that there's no like you're at a time where like it would be like a Michael Jackson impersonator today, but you just weren't sure what Michael Jackson necessarily looked like. How would you know? You would never know. It is a great time to be an impersonator. Oh my god, it's the best. Nobody can check your bullshit. Know what? It could just literally walk up. Hello, I'm Jack Dempsey. He looks like the drawing in the paper. He just looked like that drawing. And it wasn't just Dempsey. He pretended to be any boxer the tourists wanted to see. And they're just giving him drinks and sometimes more than one at the same time. It was also very embarrassing. Wait, he would be playing two boxers at the same event. It was also very embarrassing. So it would be like that sitcom play where like the main characters on two dates. But he's doing that with two different boxers. Exactly a sitcom. That's great. He forgets who he is at one of the tables eventually. You said you were Tommy. Yeah, I am Tommy. I was doing a joke as Tommy being Jack. Good Lord. Anyway, I'll be right back with those drinks. It was also very embarrassing when at the same time I had to double and even treble. As an illustration, let me tell you that one evening at the same time I represented Jack McCall, Coloff at the head of the bar, Mike Bowden at the end of it and Johnny Regan in the back room. What the fuck? All well-known poochless and champions in their class. Oh my God. My audience were especially annoyed that night, holding me down to dates and details and keeping me on the edge of apprehension. How annoying. Realism. But the faking life as a famous boxer to get drinks era would come to a close. I'm shocked that that had a shelf life. Brody and Owen had a falling out. Next he made his way to Barney Flynn's. A saloon, isn't it cool how in some stories we tell stories of guys going from state to state or doing different things and he's basically just going from bar to bar. Which almost feels state to state. I went to Barney Flynn's, a saloon on the edge of Chinatown. The biggest celebrity at Flynn's was another braggart, Chuck Connors, called the mayor of Chinatown. Connors was a professional or Irishman full of Blarney. He gave reporters and slumbers tours of the area's dives and opium dens. Some real and some fakes he set up in empty rooms, paying locals to act like dope beats. Oh look at this. This guy's really addicted to the junk, isn't he? Oh hey, Chuck, I gotta pick up my son. Sorry, did I blow the, yeah. No, hey, hey, hey, hold on, stay down. It's a miracle. What kind of opium is this that made a man. I took a, oh, I took a, uh, uh. Okay, I'm gonna sit back down. Yeah, oh gosh. Oh, it just hit me on that heroin. Oh, well there it is. It finally hit him. Are you almost done then? You gotta just fucking lay down and pass out your fucking asshole. Okay, sir. Oh boy, I tell ya, wonder why I pay him sometime. He developed a peculiar outfit. Bell-bottom trousers, a small bowler cocked at an extreme angle on his head and a short-waisted pea coat with large pearl buttons. So he dressed like a pimp. This would become the stereotyped bowlery boy costume in films, cartoons, and on stage for decades. Right. And it was just the one guy. One guy did it. So Connors is all about faking what the Broadway was or exaggerating. Besides having the usual tourists, Flynn was known to get writers seeking authentic, low-life color to put into their articles and novels. Well, they came to the wrong place. So the boys at Flynn's gave it to them. They basically created a fake language giving an almost cartoonish version of themselves for the writers who would then go on to write it all down the stories and send it around the country, giving people a false idea of what a real man of the bowlery was like. It sounds like journalism today. Quote, the Eastside dialect is not a bound in slang. Whatever of it, whatever of it there is in, it has been absorbed from the tenderloin and other sources. To coin a funny slang phrase, one must have time to invent and try it. They have no time for this on the Eastside, or even time for schooling cannot always be spared. And that accounts for ungrammatical expressions and whimsically twisted sentences, but not for the idiotic gibberish and forced coinages of words slipped into the tongues of my people by writers. Jesus. Yeah. Take that shit. Then another wave of morals swept through the city. Vice began cracking down at all the establishments. Here we go. A bar called the slide, the lowest of the lowest was investigated and shut down and the owner put in jail. This led to a quick domino's effect and all the saloons closed their doors. And just like that, open new ones, this time by politicians. So the politicians had all the places shut down. And then opened them. And they opened up. This is how Owen Kildare found himself in the establishment of the honorable Michael Callahan of the state legislature. And that's where he was one day with Jack Dempsey and Frank Casey when Frank said he had had it with the life. He didn't want to graft anymore. He didn't want to try his hand at a real job. At first the other two thought Owen was kidding, but he wasn't. Oh no, Frank. Sorry, Frank was kidding, but he wasn't. Frank wanted to try an easier life. So the three put their heads together. And that's when they decided to become strawberry pickers. What? What? What? I said they're going straight. Okay. You're going to become strawberry pickers. That's a little too straight for me. First they had to put together money for the trip. What? I'm sorry. They're just pulling the trigger on this? Yeah. Okay. The first they skirmished around and raised about $6 is joint capital. Casey went and spoke to a well-known hobo about where to go and how to get there. Oh, right. So the plan to be a strawberry picker goes through the hobo? That's correct. Alrighty. I'll find a normal. They took a ferry out of the city and then jumped on trains or at least tried. Owen and Jack could never make the connection to a new train and they ended up walking from Hobok into New York to Newark. What? Once in Newark they were very thirsty, but the water tasted odd to them so they just got a beer. Okay. And hours later they were plastered on the streets in Newark. They then walked to Philadelphia. What? Wow, they're walking. That's a long way. I mean, I think like five blocks from the bar is kind of a pain in the fucking ass. They spent a day and night sleeping on the outskirts of the city while looking for strawberry farms. This is... Is there focused strawberry picking? It feels like it might not be the focus. This might be a bar crawl. They spent all their money on food and no one they saw on the street would tell them where the strawberry country was. That fucking hobo had bad directions. Finally, out of food, hot, tired, and delirious, they stumbled upon a train station and climbed on the train while staring down the crew. Okay. Now this is the time when the crew would try to kick your ass. Yeah, but not these guys. They're like, not these guys. Yeah, these guys are like, so we're gonna ride on the train. Yeah, we're getting on the train. You okay? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I was just checking some of the other passengers' tickets, but... Are you done? Yeah, I should have done it. Okay. Thank you. We're on the train. Thank you so much. So they climbed on the train, they made their way back to New York, and they're tempted the straight life was over. My life was a strawberry picket. I got drunk for two weeks and that was it. They then settled back into life at Callaghan's. They spent the days grafting people and tripping pedestrians as they walked by. Hey, dreams come to realisation. I mean, these guys are like, they're in their thirties now? Yeah. They're like, 20s just tripping people. Tripping people for money somehow. They would also throw rotted fruits and vegetable at people walking by. Oh, Jesus. One day after a particularly good score, they exited the bar and Skea McCarthy, who couldn't hold his liquor, bumped right into a small woman. She looked at them and yelled, you are men. How dare she? Without even a moment's hesitation and not really knowing why, Owen went over and punched skinny McCarthy under his ear, sending him sprawling on the sidewalk. No one in the gang knew quite what to do. They all looked at the unconscious skinny on the sidewalk and then back at Owen. Without quite understanding why he was doing what he was doing, Owen took the woman's arm and walked her off. What? Okay. I guess I better walk a block or two with you because I think it's better. That push there won't do you nothing, but they're all drunk and might go fresh to you again. They walked together for a bit and she grilled them about his life. She was a school teacher at a school nearby. He walked her all the way back to her boarding house and as she left him, she told him he should not go back and hang around with a gang of idiots. We're strawberry pickers. From what you've told me about yourself and from what I've seen of the street life, I'm afraid it is not absolutely impossible that one of these days you may find yourself in serious trouble. And Mr. Cadare, you can rest assured that the prisons are full of men who are convinced when it is too late that this sort of talk does amount to something. You say you do not know where else to go. The evening is beautiful. There are parks, the riverfront, the Brooklyn Bridge. One can go and sit and think. Think I interrupted. Now what would I be thinking about? Yeah, as my man. I ain't got no brain. I ain't got no time to think. I'm so sorry for you. So sorry. Do try and be a man. A man has more strength and muscle. Fucking cheap. Fucking put the fucking dare sheet. I want to walk back to Calans, but he didn't go in. Before he reached the bar, he crossed the street and ended up looking at it from across the street. Then he went home, got Bill and went for a long walk. He never went back to Calans. Every day he met her and walked her home from school to a boarding house. Okay. For the first time, Owen was in love and through her eyes, he began to realize that he was quote, not only a nobody, but a despicable, contentable thing without the least of claims to the grandest title man. Yes, there was no denying the fact that somebody had fallen, sadly fallen from his horse, and all his house of cards had been knocked into smithereens by a little bit of a schoolman. Jesus. So he's realized he's a douchebag. Yeah, still. I mean, she's really yokoing the boy gang. Owen survived by collecting loans. He was owed and quickly realized that if he didn't go to places like Calans, his money would last a bit longer. Bullshit. Then he started taking up some of his rich friends on their desire to be in better shape, thinner, more muscular and on and on. He was basically a personal trainer. He's a trainer. He's a personal trainer. Okay. Quite a remember a patient who was troubled with too much embodiment and bonpois. I don't know. Sure. Bonpois. He did not believe in the prescriptions of his physician, but rather prefer the physical culture system of Professor Kildare. He was a man of much weight in public affairs and in flesh about 250 pounds in the flesh, if I remember right. For a long succession of many mornings, a select audience, including several news boys, a few policemen and myself, watched the spectacle of this 250 pound absolutely refusing to melt pounds chase around the square like mad at 5am. So he's just making an effect. Yeah. Yeah. Fucking that is what a personal trainer does. His woman Marie learned he couldn't read and she taught him every day after school was out. Her name was Marie Rosetta. She found upon his work as a personal trainer and whatever it was considered dead. So she didn't like him being a personal trainer. Okay. So he went to work at one of the steamboat peers as a baggage man, sometimes referred to as a baggage smasher. That's not, I mean, that's what the title should be today as well. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It's fun when you can watch the baggage smasher's through the plane window. He's like, oh, look at him smashing those fucking bags in there. Like monsters. Uh, the wages are $8 a week, which was a smaller amount than he earned in one night working at the dives of the Bowery. But he discovered he loved and honest days work. She continued to teach him how to read and write and math for six years. He asked Marie to marry him and she said yes. Her name was too large and unwieldy for someone from the fourth word, Marie Rosetta. Uh-huh. Down there, they were all Maggie, Sadie, Susie, Lizzie, and Nelly. Easy to say names without ours. So he gave her a new nickname, Mami Rose. Oh boy. She really lost that on that. She did not care for that. Good Lord. My name is Marie Rosetta. Hey, Mami Rose. Hello Mami. They were set to be married in February when she caught pneumonia. Or is they called it fami? Marie slowly wasted away and then finally died the week before their wedding. No. What? Do you think it was going to be a happy story? As long as Bill's okay. He couldn't work. Yeah, Bill's fine. That's okay. All right. He couldn't, and the dog was there when she died. The dog was the only one he let in the room also. Oh my God. He even kicked the mother out. He couldn't work and for a few short weeks, he had to resist the temptation to return to the life of the battery. But he didn't. He got a job as a dishwasher and he continued looking for a better job. Then one day he was waiting in a lodging house for a man who had a lead. When he saw that at the bottom of the evening journal, there was a headline. The evening journal's true love story contest. It was the winning story. He read it. Not that good, he thought. He picked up a piece of paper from the ground, judged it to be clean enough and wrote his own story. Oh wow. It's just 750 words. Three days later, his story was printed. He won the contest, which was apparently daily, and he got a check. He then sent the story to McClure's magazine. It was accepted and partly paid for, but later returned because it was quote, too true. Oh yeah. Well, that is the problem today too, right? The entertainment. He then sold it again three days later to the Sunday press. The editor invited him to become a contributor. He was now a newspaper writer. Jesus Christ. Writing short stories, editorials, and special articles. What? One day, the Sunday Herald published a story. How to be a gentleman on 10,000 a year. The story was written as a complaint, explaining how difficult it was to be a somebody in society on such a small amount. Oh, and thought of his life in the Bowery and the East Side, and how everyone managed to make it on quite a bit less than 10,000. He quickly wrote an article and submitted it to the Herald. It was called, How to be a Gentleman on $3 a Week. How to say fuck you to a fellow reporter. At first, the editor thought it was a joke. Owen was called into his office to explain how indeed a man could live on $3 a week. Okay, so you get a meat room. Well, first of all, you get one room and you put meat and ale in it. And you get six, eight guys in there, y'all sleep with the meat and ale. All right. That's it. Any questions? Who proof reads? He then began writing more and more stories about his people, the people of the Bowery. He was offered a new job at the Sunday News in 1902. That was the newspaper of the Bowery, and his old friends got to see his name daily in the paper. Often, his stories were framed and put on walls in the fourth ward. Hey, that's the guy who made it out. Hey, it's the guy who couldn't read and fucked meat. His editor then pushed him to write about himself, and now he started as a newsie and ended up working at a newspaper as a writer at the age of 37. All these honed stories that he's already honed in these bars. He did, and the stories became a book. He was given rave reviews, and he wrote three more books about the Bowery. He became known as the Kipling of the Bowery. He remarried. In 1908, with the help of playwright Walter Hecket, he adapted My Mammy Rose into a play called The Regeneration. When he sought opening night, he hated the production and was so angry at the way the lead actor played him that he had to be restrained from beating him up. Jesus. The play closed in a month. Oh man. The Bowery wasn't done with Owen yet. Just after the near fight at the theater, he collapsed and was taken to Bellevue Hospital. He was diagnosed with peresis, a general physical and mental deterioration usually caused by late stage syphilis. Big Tim Sullivan would soon get the same diagnosis. Owen never recovered. He spent most of his last three years in the psych wards at Bellevue and the Manhattan State Hospital on Ward's Island. When he died on Ward's Island in 1911, the New York papers ran long obits retelling his colorful life story. In 1915, William Fox, also known who had grown up on the Lowery side, produced Regeneration, a silent feature film adapted from Kildare's book and play. That is quite a fucking life. Yeah. That's a fucking man right there. That is a fucking man. Right? Good Lord. Jesus. So, he made it out, but then he died. But he made it out. Made it out. That's a good story, right? It is a good story. That is not, no. We should really, if we look at it through the prism of dolloping, that is a very good story. She died, but he became a writer because of it. She died, but she changed him. So she lived. Right. She lived. She lived. She lived on. I don't know what happened to Bill, but I assume Bill didn't make it because he's a dog. I think if it's okay with everyone, I'd like to pretend that Bill's still with us. What about in the last scene, just cut to Bill eating meat in that room? Yeah. And then someone's like, we need a boxer. All right, so not bad, right? Not bad. Fucking crazy shit, dude. There you go. Oh, one killed there, ladies and gentlemen. Oh, one killed there. Oh, one killed there. Oh, one killed there. Oh, one killed there.