 Podcast with me, Dan Anthony, each week I read a story to my friend... Gareth Reynolds, who has no idea what the fuck is going on right now. And he's asleep. God, do you want to look here to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Stay okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickle you, Quadcastle. Okay. You are queen fakie of made-up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville! A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Fray. Hi, Gary. No, it's not done, my friend. No, no. I'm trying to pick up the energy, you know what I mean? No, it's just insane. I mean, someone... It's an intro to a show. Someone has to pick up the energy. What's happening? What are you doing? Dave, Dave, Dave. Yeah. What's up? Come on, man. What are we doing? I'm going to need you to focus or something. Something's happened. What do you mean? Well, you just know you're angry about something and nothing changed. I'm not angry about anything. All right. Why don't you get off my deck? January 27th. Wait, wait, wait. No, no. 1778. No, I have done it. Wait, no, no, I... 1778. No, I have dates. I have some dates. Here's... Sorry. July 11th, this Saturday, I'll be with Will Anderson at Nermelt. Well, this is going up next week, so no, you won't. Oh, fuck. This is the small up, huh? No, this is for... What day is it? Tuesday. Right, so when do we put them up? Or is it Sunday? All right, keep going. We do the show with Will on Saturday and then this goes up on Saturday. We'll have another date. No. July 20th, I'll be at Hot Tub. Now go ahead. I made this weird. I agree. I agree. I've ruined the start of this one. Hot Tub, Joel Mendelflur. A little private joke for Joel. Well, now it's just January 27, 1778. I mean, this is lost. Apologies, one happening. It's... One happening again. One happening again. One happening again. One happening again. The Continental Army first occupied West Point, New York, on that date. And that is where the oldest continuously operated army post in the United States is. Okay. The United States Military Academy at West Point stands atop the sea cliffs on the Hudson River, 40 miles north of New York City. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson recognized the need for a place to train young men who could defend the nation against Britain and Republican France. I'm nervous. I'm 17 hundreds. Already nervous. What? Already nervous. Why? Because we're going to hear some fucked up shit about West Point. How could you think that? Because this is how it started. This is just a nice positive story about the military. No, you're not recruiting. You're a liar. It's just about a bunch of boys. Maybe it's a story of five boys. You're a liar. Who came together through hardship and through the academy at West Point learned how to be men and became better people. No. And helped to lead our country. No. That's a different podcast you're describing. You don't know that? I do. Continue. When it first opened its doors in 1802, West Point was nothing more than a few ramshackle buildings with ten cadets taught by three teachers. Students were admitted at any point during the year and admission standards were quote laughable. Okay. So you and I could have been in West Point. Yep. We just knew a guy. Yeah. Just like Aberdeen Costello. Following the disastrous war of 1812 against the British in which a largely untrained American army suffered a string of defeats against the British. The British actually ate a meal at the White House after capturing Washington, DC. Just to be pricks. Just to why. Yeah. What do you like you? I got some tea. Yeah. And they sat down. Right. And how would you like some crumpets? Yeah. It was a lot like that. Yeah. You know, I think we should paint this thing blue. Hey, the blue house. Fuck him. Fuck off America. Fuck you. Pricks. Wankers. Congress. And then we showed them, didn't we? We did. Well, I'm sort of them too. But yeah. Yeah. Cars decided to increase funding. Alden Partridge became super intended at West Point and quickly set about transforming the army recruits. He drew up. I should make sure this is recording. Oh, that's a good idea. Yep. Still recording. I didn't have it on the thing. Now I got on the thing. We're all good. Okay. Can't wait to hear your complaints about the sound. So he became, you know, he started setting shit up. He started kicking ass, taking names. Yeah. He drew up regulations for cadets, created 16 hour days full of drills and study and adopted a gray cadet uniform. Okay. A lot of people are like gray, you know, blah, blah, blah. The reason that gray was the uniform is because it was the cheapest fabric. Let's just be honest. Oh, that's why? That's why. Yeah. That's why he was selling it like, look at this lovely design. That's why all the army, all the army, whenever they're gray, gray is cheap. Okay. So let's not act like it's a great color. Okay. It is a great. People love gray. It is a gray color. I don't want to talk to you anymore. What? But this is, that's the whole idea. Students now followed an academic year rather than arriving whenever it pleased them. Partridge also developed standards for admission for bidding 12 year old boys, married men, the physically disabled and amputees, who were previously admitted as cadets. I'm sorry. Specifically 12 year old boys. Like 11 year olds could come in and 13 year olds. I don't know. I think it was. I don't know. Anybody under 12? 12 are weak. What are you, 8? Get in here. It's a bridge age. It is a bridge age. It's a 10 to 12 count. 11's nothing. I love amputees. Hey, I'd like to join the army. Well, I've only got one. But it's good as good as two. Call me Captain Hopps. They call me punter. How are you? In 1817, clapping is going to be my biggest issue here, sir. Here's me clapping. All right. That's it. I can point though. I can point like a mother. I'm a pointing assassin. Watch this. Look at that. Charge. Say what I mean. And then the two armors will clap. And then I fall over because I only have the one thing. Yes. And also my legs are fake. Now, where do I sign up pointing? In 1817, Partridge was dismissed after selling Academy wood for profit and appointing a relative to a high post. So he's just kind of like, he's kind of just real shady. Yeah. Like, what's going on with those wood? Yeah. He's like, no, only the best. By the way, this is my brother. He's in charge. I'm also selling two by fours in the parking lot. He just rolls up to hump deep over the trunk full of two by fours. How are you? I'm leading America's future army. Now, who wants to buy some stained wood? This is my brother. He's in charge of wood. He has no arms or legs. Partridge refused to relinquish command. Well, I didn't realize that was an option. You're fired. No, I'm not. Okay. This is going unexpectedly. Want to buy some wood? He was subsequently tried by court martial on numerous charges of neglect of duty and insubordination. Yeah. And support. He's not leaving. You can't. You're fired. No, I'm not. Okay. We're going to do this again. What is he doing? How does he do that? In November, 1817, he was sentenced to be cashiered, which basically is a. Yeah. You work at a grocery store. Yeah. You have to be cashier. Yeah. Well, it's better than begging. If you're like a ranked gentleman, they take away your. Oh, okay. Smash your sword in front of you and shit like that. Jesus. So the president of the United States intervened and the punishment was remitted. Oh man, he's unfireable. Yeah. Alan Partridge then resigned, taking his place was a superintendent at the military academy, Colonel Sylvanus Thayer, a former student known as the father of West Point, Thayer Revolution. I'd both let's be honest. The other guy sounds like the father of West Point. Yeah. All right. I mean, yeah, you look, I mean, he's kind of the Pete Rose of West Point. He is the. Yeah. He sold the little wood. He fucking hooked his brother up, but come on now, you're wearing gray, aren't you? You're only sleeping eight hours a day, right? You fucking bitches. Thayer revolutionized the economy with his strict rules. Students at West Point weren't allowed to leave campus, cook in their dorms or duel. I'll tell you, the more I hear about dueling, the more I miss those times. Like, you know, it was just, it's a way more exciting way to live life. A diet of beef, bread and water prepared his young students for military rations. All right, boys, you're going to start eating like shit now. All right. Ever on ready to get really clogged up? I get you that you're growing and everything, but let's withhold stuff you need. We're going to be fighting a war on vegetables inside of these camps. His academy was a metocracy. Admission and graduation were not about whether you were rich or poor, connected or unconnected, but whether you were good. All right. This was a new idea around this time. That's interesting that that's a new idea. It is. Yeah. Thayer made his nephew sign a letter of resignation, which he kept in case he broke the rules. Okay. It's kind of fucked up. It's totally fucked up. His nephew's like, wait, why? What's happening? Mostly, Thayer wanted West Point to become a respected place of learning. By 1826, the academy had 36 men serving as faculty and staff with four official departments, tactics, engineering, natural philosophy, and military tactics. Instruction was also provided in French, drawing, law, history, and chemistry. Thayer's learning system was based on sections where cadets would be promoted to a more difficult class or demoted to a lower class depending on their performance. Okay. So he really just did what made sense. He was just logical. Yeah. He just made it. He was like, make them learn a bunch. Yeah. And there's actually going to be classes. And if you're a shithead, you're out of here. Just ask that fucking nephew of mine. Oh, that fucking... Fuck up. He's just on thin ice. Isn't he? Look at him. Look at this letter I got. Motherfucker, I swear to God. One misstep, I'm there. Cadets were taught using a recital method where they were required to demonstrate knowledge of concepts or formulas in front of their classmates and instructor each day without the help of texts or notes. Cadets were awarded a grade ranging from 3.0, excellent, to 0.0, complete failure. A grade of 2... Wait, but did he invent the... That's like the GPA, right? I don't know if he invented it, but maybe. Yeah, I think he might have. Okay. A grade... Yeah, we'll get there. A grade of 2.0 was considered barely passing. Each week the grades were tallied up and cadets were either promoted or demoted to more or less challenging classes. The system of points also took into account disciplinary merits for such things as uncleanliness and tobacco use or gambling. This grueling system was geared towards academic excellence and was even the model which colleges such as Harvard emulated throughout the 19th century. So I guess he did. Yeah, wow. The first half of West Point's existence did not witness the hazing rituals or class segregation which prevailed later on. Uh-oh. Instead, an unwritten code of gentlemanly honor persisted. When an issue arose or they were questioned, they would often speak truthfully. Dueling had been outlawed by the army, but any slight against a man by another was keenly felt at West Point. Many cadets kept pistols, swords and knives concealed in their trunks for like in their rooms in case they were required. Wait, so they're like... There's like sneak duels? Yeah. They have like secret duels? Yeah. Oh man, duels just got a whole lot spicier. It's like when you're not supposed to leave your high school campus. Yeah. And then you leave and go to lunch. Yeah. Like Subway? Yeah. Yeah, it's like that. Except it's dueling. Except with death circling. All right, you ready to go outside and duel, motherfucker? Yeah, I'm ready to fucking duel you. No, no, fucking. Hey, swords, we gotta keep it quiet. Okay, all right. Cool. From the Boston Gazette, we are informed by the North New York American that a duel was fought Friday morning at Hoboken between two cadets from West Point in which one of them was badly wounded. His name, we understand, is Maurice, a native of Virginia. The editor adds, both parties, if the sufferer survives, we presume will be dismissed from the academy. Oh man. Worth it! Yeah. He woke up out of the coma. Well, let him know he's dismissed. And fired. There had the old ramshackle buildings of the revolutionary vintage replaced with two new barracks, a North and South barracks, a mess hall, an academic building, and a number of new quarters for the staff. The barracks were laid out in several stories with rooms running off quarters. There built an academic institution with engineering at its core. He knew that to build a strong nation required engineers. The graduates of West Point would eventually build the infrastructure of the industrial USA, its railways, bridges, canals, and borders. They had done a tour of Europe and seen that science and engineering built strong nations. Maybe the Republicans should take that tour. Well, he was a fervent admirer of Napoleon Bonaparte, whom he had hoped to meet on his trip in 1815. Man, that's an interesting get. Yeah. That's a great sit down. Yeah. But it does sound like, I mean, all the stuff you're talking about is stuff that would be great to have somebody believe today in our government. That'd be awesome. To have a president who is just like, we need to teach people shit. Hey, let's teach people shit and fix the bridges. Hmm. I don't like the sound of it. I like bridges that fall down. Let's go to war. War? No bridges. Yeah. Yeah, war! Fuck you, bridges. Fuck you, science and bridges. That should be the Republicans. The Republicans should now fight a war in the states on bridges. Just like start actively trying to make the bridges fall apart faster. Fixing bridges costs money, so fuck you! Fuck you, bridges. Thayer's rigorous daily schedule encouraged a monastic like discipline and succeeded in turning the economy from a chaotic institution to a place of order and learning. Yet, as diligent and as honorable as they were, these young men with the same inclinations and passions as any young men. Uh-uh. Uh-oh. Yeah. Here we go. The coaster's starting to go down. They just had few opportunities to exercise them. When these passions were exercised, they often erupted violently. In 1825, the cadets were allowed to drink on two holidays. The Fourth of July and Christmas. I mean, those nights have to be fucking crazy. Well, yeah. How could they not be? I mean, you're drinking. Have you ever been to an office party? Yeah, right. Yeah. Now imagine never being able to drink outside of the office and having an office party. The Fourth of July celebration got completely out of hand. When half-naked students led a, quote, snake dance and hoisted the school's commandant William Worth on their shoulders, the result of this incident was that in 1826, the cadets were informed that their Christmas would be alcohol-free. Uh-uh. Arrests and expulsions faced those who broke the rules. Uh-uh. A few of the cadets took Thayer's new rules as a challenge and set upon a personal mission to make Christmas the biggest party West Point had ever seen. Snap. This is exciting. Thayer's ban on alcohol didn't extend past the boundaries of the academy and various drinking establishments existed outside of West Point. There were two taverns located just outside the walls of the academy. And those popular of these, Benny Haven's Tatter, Tavern, is still immortalized in a mural on the mess hall's wall. Benny Haven's had served as a first lieutenant in the War of 1812, occupied a one-story cottage a short distance West of the old Cadet Hospital. At first Benny sold only ale, cider, and buckwheat cakes. Oh, man, I love a good buckwheat cake. That's just, hey, what do you got here? We got ale, we got cider, we got buckwheat cakes. I'll have a cider and a buckwheat cake. I'll have an ale, too. He subsequently began dispensing a more potent beverage. As a result, in 1832 he was expelled from the military reservation. Shortly after his expulsion, Benny Haven's opened a tavern on the river's edge below the cliffs of Highland Falls. Still sticking close. Sure, yeah. I'll get off the reservation. Yeah, but I'll be right down the street. Benny Haven's Tavern was the only one that allowed the bartering of shoes and blankets for liquor. God damn it. This is a better time. I literally just dropped off like three pairs of shoes to the Salvation Army a couple days ago. Yeah, you could have gotten some beers. I could have gone down to the shortstop and gotten shit canned. Yeah. Six shoes, what did that get me? A whole night of drinking, son. Fuck yeah. Unlimited pool and shots for those converse you just brought in. But they would not take uniforms from the school. Okay. All right, we got our limits, gents. Right. Nothing I can do with uniforms. Okay. I wish you guys had some blankets. I really do. Oh, blankets are shoes. Man, look at these. You got to get Ditas. I know they haven't been invented yet, but you got a Ditas? Yeah, God, I would love those. Because the men, Adidas is what they're actually called, which I just can't. No. Why are you saying that? Because they're from Germany. It's Adidas. Yeah, you know, listen, it's, I mean, I'm sure Audi's pronounced a little differently, but come on. I know. I'm just doing what I'm told. All right. Because the men at West Point had no money, the Tavern would usually allow them credit for a year at a time. Edgar Allen Poe spent the majority of his time at West Point at Benihavon and his continued absences eventually led to his dismissal after one year. Yeah, but what did he ever do? Nothing. Yeah. Total loser. Yeah. The Taverns were technically illegal to visit, but as long as a cadet wasn't caught or commanding officer turned a blind eye, they remained an essential place to cool off with friends, enjoy a warm flapjack and drink up. Get a buckwheat cake and some cider. Girl. Maybe. Girl. Pay two shoes and a blanket for the night. Girl. I mean, now you're my girl. I've had a lot of cider. You look like a girl. That's what I'm saying. He's talking to the blanket with shoes inside of it. It's really fucked up. Before 1826, another Tavern existed on the property directly behind West Point. This Tavern, as it was called, was so close to the academy that it often enticed cadets. Thayer dealt with his temptation by purchasing the property and turning the tavern into a hospital. What a fucking asshole. Yeah. That's quite a downgrade. Yeah. Jefferson Davis, who would go on to be the future president of the Confederate States during the Civil War, had a history of bad behavior while drunk. He was the first student to be arrested for going to Benny Haven. Another time, Davis was reportedly so drunk that he fell down a 60-foot ravine while bolting from the tavern because a professor had come in. Jesus. In retrospect, 60 feet. His friend shouted down to him to respond if he wasn't dead. Jefferson wanted to laugh at the ridiculous question, but he was in so much pain. All he could do was raise one bloody hand to show that he was still alive. Oh my God. Jesus. I mean, that's quite a trade-off for not getting caught drinking. You have one bloody arm that's working. He was hospitalized for four months. Oh my God. It's really like Will Ferrell in Austin Powers. Holy shit. Four months is worth it. Because then obviously you're caught too. It's not like they're like, why do you want to be homeless? None of that worked out. What was he doing? None of that worked out. He was hand gliding and forgot the equipment. Sider gliding. Yeah. What a group of Jefferson Davis' friends suggested they flout the superintendent's new law and throw a Christmas Eve rager the night of December 24th, 1826. Davis was on board. Oh boy. Their choice of holiday beverage for the party was the notorious eggnog. Oh God. Nowadays, eggnog isn't necessarily snimes with alcohol in the 18th and 19th century. However, eggnog was more often than not alcoholic. I think that's true today. Yeah, maybe. But some people just drink the eggnog. Those people are serial killers. I want an egg drink. I want an egg drink with no real benefit, buzzwars. Oh God, I am full. Yeah. I've had a thimble. So it was mostly alcoholic, a descendant of a widely drunk hot milk punch known as a posse, which contained curdled wine or ale. Yeah. So a hot milk punch that contained curdled wine or ale. I think that just these last three sentences you've said have ended my time with eggnog for good. Yeah. Just actually now thinking about what it is, I think it's over with me and eggnog. Yeah, it's definitely. Not that I was a big, you know, not that I was a nager. You're a nager. Uh, you know, recovering. The number of small dairy farms in colonial America in the 19th century made milk, cream and eggnog more accessible to the American public. Nog is essentially a mixture of four items found on any colonial farm, chickens, cows, sugar and booze. Great, because chickens make eggs. Who? Who? Cows make milk. Yeah. And then sugar and booze. But who's, how did it start? I don't know. I got a feeling. Let's put this all in a cup. You know what I just did? Something pretty fantastic. Oh, it's a bread trick. Okay. I mean, listen to me. It's not crazy, but I took the cow milk and I put an egg in it and now let's get drunk with it. Hey, everybody, raise your bread drinks. So vomiting, oddly. The type and taste of Nog could be hidden with spices. It's terrible to put some cinnamon in it. Okay. You know what I'm saying? This is a little kick. Not a mag. I think we're on to something here. Oh, my God. I put four eggs. Some milk and sugar rum in here. Yuck. Let's put it on a table and then the sun and drink from it all day. It's called Nog. Come on. Room temperature or hotter? Noggy. During the height of the triangle trade, which is when the people traded triangle sugar, slaves and rum. Oh, God, the triangle trade. Right. I will trade you my rum for a slave and he'll trade you. No, I'll trade you some sugar. You trade your slave to Barry. Barry will trade your rum to you and then you trade it to me. Seems pretty straightforward and morally acceptable. Holy fuck, it's a triangle. The rum was widely available as such a widely available drink. Eggnog became a very popular beverage with Americans. George Washington even had a famous recipe for the drink that included rum, cherry, brandy and whiskey for an extra kick. No kind of liquor was specified. The rule was the more liquor the merrier. Oh, boy. Several nights before Christmas, three cadets, center Robertson Burnley, crossed the Hudson River to Martin's Tavern to get as much whiskey as they could buy with the money collected from the North Barracks. Jefferson Davis, stalker, Fairleigh and Guillaume went to Benny Havens, bribing a guard with 35 cents to borrow a boat and cross the river. That's just a different time. That's just a bad West Point guard. Yeah, 35 cents. I mean, who knows what it is back then. That's 10 bucks. Come on. Yeah. I'm back with three to four of the Flaggins of Liquor. That's like a picture. Okay. Mutton was smuggled in from Benny Havens. Should anyone need something to eat? Jesus Christ. So we're basically talking about a mutton and nog party. This will get stinky. It's going to go good. Hatfuls of eggs and gallons of fresh milk were purchased from farmers close to the Academy. Mutton pork and turkey from Benny's, which they plan to heat over their fireplaces in their rooms. It does not sound fun. I mean, I know they want to get shitfaced. They don't have a good time, but. Fresh room mutton. You know what I mean? Man. Oh, got that. Freshly cooked mutton, some hot eggs and rum. Ho ho ho. They stole sugar, bread, butter, condiments from the kitchen. The cinnamon and nutmeg were also provided by Benny Havens. The containers of alcohol and food were then stored among the cadets private possessions hidden until the night of Christmas. Oh God. This man. What is. They are restrict, but not stupid cadets had smuggled alcohol into the Academy before and those situations have been dealt with on an individual basis. He assumed that with the holidays, there would be similar incidents. In fact, he discussed such a possibility with colleagues at a small party the night before, but there took nothing more than standard precautions. Assigning two officers, Captain Ethan Allen Hitchcock, a faculty member in military tactics, and Lieutenant William A. Thornton to monitor the North Barracks. He also assigned cadets in charge of every floor in the barracks, holding them responsible if anything went wrong. Oh boy. Well, I have a feeling things are going to go wrong. No. Lieutenant Eton was on watch in the guard room on Christmas Eve. In the guard room was a large drum at a military fife which were used in the morning and night to signal the beginning and end of the day. Each morning, the drummer would strap on the drum and stand between the North and South Barracks. At the first sight of the sun, he would beat the call to summon the cadets from the barracks for roll call. A drum would also signify breakfast and the start of classes. At 10 p.m. on December 24th, he sounded the nightly call for all cadets to be in their rooms. In room 28 of the North Barracks, however, cadets, swords, barion, Sullivan, Skipwith, Stalker, and Billy Murdock were mixing Tennessee-style eggnog in wooden buckets. Jesus. So this is Christmas Eve they're doing this show. Yeah. Okay. As long as they're not making a 24-hour nog in advance. Right. No. They're noggin' it now. They're noggin' nice and sour. Fresh nog. Yeah. In room 5, well, I mean, the milk has been sitting around for a while. Well, look, by no means is this acceptable to digest. I'm not suggesting that at all. In room 5, one level down and directly across from Hitchcock's room, Jefferson Davis, Guillaume, Bonford, Cobb, and Billy Fitzgerald, a top five student was Billy. We're also drinking eggnog. Billy suddenly decided to make another trip to a local tavern as he was afraid that the supply would run low. Jesus. Hitchcock, or old Hitch, as the cadets called him, walked the halls until 3 a.m. when he went to bed unaware of the parties across the hall and on the level above him. So how are they not making, how does he not aware? They're just super- They're just not hearing him. They're just not allowed to just- Just quiet as fuck. Quiet party. Quietly getting drunk. Wow. That's gotta be really, that's gotta be an interesting way to party. Yeah. With eggnog. Yeah, it would blow off a lot of steam by being like- The best time right now. Oh my god, this thing. It's so thick. This is a fucking rager. I feel alive. At 4 a.m., Hitchcock awoke to the sound of noisy cadets a few floors above him. Oh dear. It's happening. Going up one story to room 28, he knocked on the door, which opened to reveal several men in a room smelling of liquor and a recently smothered fire which was clearly being used to reheat food. Although he did not see any liquor, he did see human-like shapes under a blanket. He ordered the two men under the blanket to come out, which they did sheepishly. He then ordered several men to go back to their rooms. It then became apparent that there was another cadet under the blanket. Hitchcock ordered him to stand up. The figure did, but did not remove the blanket, rising as a ghost-like figure. Boo. Uncover yourself, sir. Hitchcock shouted, the shrouded figure tried to edge its way out of the room. He thinks it's a cloak of invisibility. You can't see me when I'm under the sheet. He's talking to someone else. This is the best guy ever. I'm going away. This never happened. Uncover yourself, sir. Hitchcock shouted. Oh, right. I'll do that. Hitchcock yanked the cover from the man to reveal a cadet in uniform, but still with a cap held in front of his face to hide his identity. This guy, this guy, this is like pixelations before the TV was invented. Hitchcock ordered the cadet to show his face several times, but the cadet just stood there, cap in front of his face. This guy's a legend. This is like, this is like the unfireable guy. Several other cadets looked on in stunned silence. She's like, Jesus Christ, what's he doing? Hitchcock waited a full 15 seconds after his last command. Sir, do not compel me to use violence with a gentleman, he said. The figure tried for the door, but again, Hitchcock blocked his path. Finally, Hitchcock snapped the cap away from the figure to reveal the face of George Skeppwith. Hitchcock ordered him to his room and then told the cadets they were under arrest and ordered them to go to bed. The captain left the room at 4.15 a.m. and returned to his room to sleep. After Hitchcock left, Billy Murdock was furious that Hitchcock had used force on Skeppwith, slighting his honor. Oh boy. He said to Fitzgerald and Stocker, who had moved up for Moon 5, get your bayonets, boys, and pistols if you have them. Before this night is over, Hitchcock will be dead. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, okay, whoa, all right, now hold on a second. The party's getting started. Whoa, no, the party's over. The party's getting started. The party's over, we're out of nog, we're all drunk. It's getting gone. I don't think it's time to kill a man. Disagree, I disagree. He forcibly removed Skepp's tat. I wonder why they don't want them drinking booze. Yeah, they're not good at it. Yeah, a man's gonna die. Shortly after arriving back in his room, Hitchcock heard footsteps coming down the hall. The feet stopped in front of his door and he heard whispers. After a pause, the door reverberated with three solid blows made from a pistol, butt, or club. Jesus Christ, are they gonna kill him? The feet ran away as Hitchcock opened his door. Down the corridor, he saw a figure call, Halli-ho, Hitch, before fading away. Whoa, okay, wow, we've got a couple MVPs working on this one. If only that was Skepp, that guy would be the best. Halli-ho, where's that guy? Hitchcock heard doors slamming above and more footsteps in the occasional curse. Hitchcock was about to get real. He went up to the third floor in search of Thornton. So Thornton is the other guy. Thornton is supposed to be on the- Right, okay. He's on Hitchcock's side. Thornton. Yeah, he's on- The two guys that are supposed to be keeping charge. And so far, not going well. Not going well. Yeah. In the corridor, he came across a stalker carrying a stick of wood and reeling with drunkenness. Hitchcock ordered him to stop, but stalker just stood there watching him. Going on necessary business captain. Oh no. Replied stalker before staggering down the hall again. Oh dear. Oh dear. He stopped to lean against the wall and retched, but did not vomit. Hitchcock continued on and went to the second floor. He's like, all right, I'm going to put a pit in this. That guy's good. I'll be back when you're done retching like a sick bird. Yeah. Good. By the way, the smell of the retch? Not good. Not good. Not good. Oh God. It's God. Jevron Zendavis heard Hitchcock's steps from room 11 where another party was going on and saw him moving towards room five. Having heard their collective move of defiance against authority while having a drink in room five earlier that evening, Davis decided to save Hitchcock. Hitchcock had previously spoken highly of Davis at a court martial. As Hitchcock entered room five to be confronted by a party even bigger than room 28, Davis burst in and shouted, put away the grog boys, Captain Hitchcock's coming. Only to realize Hitchcock was already there. Wait, sorry. So Hitchcock goes into the room. So Davis heard they were going to they were threatening to kill Hitchcock. So he saw him walking that way. And then he ran down to the room and burst in and yelled, everybody watch out, Hitchcock coming, but Hitchcock was already. But it was just a straight up miscommunication. That wasn't like a tactic or anything. He just was like going to save him, but he's already in the room. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. So Hitchcock was like, oh God. Okay. You're not helping. Thanks for all the help, asshole. Davis and others were placed under arrest in order to their rooms. Hitchcock read the group, the riot act, which is the thing which declares that any group of 12 or more people are unlawfully assembled. Okay. And open to punitive action. Right. So he read them the actual riot. So he's right. The real riot act. They are drunk with swords and pistols and he's reading a law. He's reading a law to them. I'm sure that'll work. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. Why is it not worked? Well, yeah, it's a straightforward thing. Yeah. No better way to calm them down than tell them to stop. Well, it'll work. Davis returned to his room. Hitchcock questioned the occupant about liquor. Then Hitchcock ordered Sevier, the cadet responsible for the room, to open trunks. Sevier refused, instead simply lying down against a wall. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. He went to take the note. Ah, no. Sleep. Open these trunks. I was going to sleep here against this. I'm sure about to handle the situation. Hitchcock left. It was now 4.50 p.m. A.M., sorry. 4.50. 4.50 a.m. It's not, I mean, at this point it's kind of a race against time. It's just kind of like wait a couple more hours and the day's going to start. Yeah. It's like your vampire movie. Yeah. Right. Okay. Three cadets were discovered by Cadet James G. Overton, a relief sentinel and not involved in the parties. Any questions about their actions? They gave a drunken explanation about needing drums and a fife. We were actually trying to help because we had to get a fife. I was kidding. Because this... And a drum. What? It goes... Don't talk anymore. Bunga, bunga, bunga. No, no. What were you trying to... Stop helping me. Bunga, bunga, bunga, bunga. I was like, how's everyone going to wake up out of the fight and drop? You know, I... It was why it'd be helpful. Bro, he'd fucking this up. Bunga, bunga, bunga, bunga. He knows we're drunk now. The other officers, given the duty of keeping an eye on the cadets... Which is... Oh, sorry. That's Thornton. A walk around this time. So Thornton rose and began wandering through the quarters where he found two cadets with ruffled and unbuttoned shirts. Imagine him just going out for like his morning like, alright, make sure everything's tipped off. Hello, gentlemen. Hello. Hi. Guys, what's going on? How are you? Oh, so dear. Dear. This is my chest. Excuse me? This is my chest. Okay. It's open. Um... If you see Barry, he's going... Uh... I'm going to come right back. Good morning. Okay, goodbye for now. One of these two cadets was Fitzgerald, the top five. Uh-huh. Only at this time, he was a lot less than the top five because he was wielding a curved sword. Sure. Thornton placed him... Does that mean penis? Yeah. Okay. Thornton placed them under arrest and told them to return to their rooms. He asked Fitzgerald for the weapon, but Fitzgerald refused, screaming at Thornton maniacally. Dude, I feel okay. Yeah, I get it. It says to be fucking terrifying. Give me your sword, soldier. Wait, wait. So he's literally like probably expecting everything to be cool. Then he's walking the grounds and these guys who are like being trained to be the best, you know, the best young fighters and the best soldiers in the world are all fucking shit-canned in just varying scales of like too drunk to stand to like maybe going to kill him. That's pretty much it. And he's alone just trying to walk the grounds. I mean, it's almost like the night of the living dead. It feels like a zombie movie where you're like, all righty. It's not good. Yeah. Uh, Fitzgerald then struck the floor three times with his sword and walked off to room 29. Loving how he's handling it. Loving, loving the move. Just then, Thornton heard the sound of a drum and fife outside. Oh, good morning. I think the men were cheering the musicians who had stolen the instruments from Eaton's Garderov. They got so drunk they stopped caring about being caught. Totally. Like they, it probably started out as like a let's sneak it and we'll be hung over and now they're literally, they've stolen shit and they're laughing and Thornton's there. Thornton went down stairs to put an end to the terrible music, but never made it as he was struck by Cadet Roberts with a piece of firewood and knocked unconscious. Jesus Christ. Yeah. It's not good. Taking care of business. Listen, did, did he read the riot act properly? Hallways were now complete chaos. Men ran from room to room waving swords and muskets. Yeah. Yells echoed the hallways. Firewood was thrown about crashing into walls and windows. An occasional shot was fired. A cadet opened a window for fresh air only to vomit and crash unconscious passing out in his own filth. Oh, wait. So he, he barfed out the window and then fell out the window onto his barf. Yeah. It's just a landing spot. Meanwhile, I honestly, I could picturing this is insane. Yeah. Okay. All right. Meanwhile at 5am cadet Guion got a pistol from the South Barracks and with the intent of killing Hitchcock. Jesus Christ. This is insane. Yeah. Okay. Okay. At the same time Hitchcock was in his room. I mean, they got so drunk they wanted to kill everyone. Yeah. Like anyone above them, they now want to kill. Yeah. It's Lord of the Flies. Okay. Good. So Hitchcock was in his room at this point worried that blood would be spilled. Suddenly there were violent blows on his door. Firewood was being heaved at the door like a battering ram. Guion smashed at the door, which was very close to splintering. Impatient he pulled out his pistol and aimed at the door. The crowd of men around himself violent as he pulled the trigger. Cadet Thompson accidentally bumped him causing the shot to hit the side of the door. Stones were now being thrown at the barrack windows from outside, including Hitchcock's. Hitchcock. So they're just breaking all the windows. Yeah. No. Hitchcock. Well, this is not good. This is not good. I should have put three guys on guard. Hitchcock burst out of his room and the startled cadets retreated. In the corridor, Hitchcock saw men smashing windows with clubs. Go to your room, he ordered. No, no. Some of the men did, but most did not. Hitchcock abandoned that philosophy. If anything, it's now, this is what you do now. This is the move. You pretend you got drunk too and you also want to kill the people on your staff. Hitchcock then heard the morning bugle call and thinking this meant it was daylight. He was relieved. But what an idiot. It was not. It was a false morning bugle call. What does he think of bugle? The guy just plows. Yeah. But also, what does he think? Like a bugle's not going to stop them. No, but he just thought, yeah, right. The bugle's not going to make them all be like, oh, wait a minute. We reacted badly. He went to Thornton's room, but no one was there and rocks are being thrown at Thornton's windows by giggling men. Giggling. Leaving Thornton's room, Hitchcock came up against another man whom he ordered to halt, but the cadet instead raised a club against Hitchcock. There was a brief struggle before the cadet dashed off. Another man Hitchcock encountered just stood there until Hitchcock moved on. It's awkward. I love those guys. Yeah. The one who was just like, I think it's just better if I just walk by this one. He then arrested Hamilton for a third time that night when he was caught in the hallways. Well maybe it's time to switch tactics. Hitchcock saw Cadet Overton and ordered him to get the calm here, meaning commandant worth. A bunch of drunk cadets overheard this as get the Bomba Deers, the hated artillery men. I'm okay. Wait. He wanted the Comma Deer and what do they think they're gonna do now? So he said get the calm here and they thought he said get the Bomba Deer. And that means kill? That means that these artillery guys that they hate are coming. Oh Jesus. Oh shit. So they're like motherfucker, no way. So Stalker loaded his pistol with gunpowder and no balls firing at several times. He ordered men to fortify the North Barracks against the oncoming attack from the Bomba Deers. Oh god they're so drunk. They're so drunk. Murdoch heard the rumor and awaited the invasion. He stood at the entrance to the barracks and asked each cadet passing are you a Bomba Deer or a gentleman? Well what the fuck? I mean what sort of this is like it's almost like they don't they some of them haven't heard about lying yet. Oh, gentlemen, well your story checks out. Come on in. Fitzgerald has now cut and bleeding by the window panes he has sliced with his sword. Good move. Made his way to room 11 in the South Barracks. There he rallied men to join the fight against the Bomba Deers before he fell asleep on his bloodied forearms. Alrighty, our leader everyone, our fearless leader. Let's go get him right now we're gonna kill him. Wait a minute. Is there a hell of a scar? Noggin' noggin' noggin' noggin' noggin' noggin' noggin' noggin' noggin' noggin' Hitchcock continued to try to restore order in the North Barracks and he got into a fistfight with cadet Walter O.T. It must be pretty fun to fistfight a guy that drunk when you're totally sober. I mean so easy. You know what I mean? You're just kind of like, alright you know what motherfucker this is over. Although he'd be the kind of guy you would punch and he'd be like, I didn't feel nothing. Still he'd be like, I will keep punching you until you feel something. Thorne woke on the stairway where he had been knocked out and returned to his room. Okay. Hitchcock greeted him in his room at 545 AM by 6 o'clock other cadets who were not drinking also got involved in restoring order. At the same time the main riders were attempting to recruit other cadets but having little success. So it's 6 AM. Yeah and like a drunken recruit to a sober person. So I'm telling you this is the way. It's like, no you're really fucked up. He's just getting started. It's more nog. No, no, no, no more nog. No more nog. Fitsy has a sword. No more. Fitsy shouldn't have a sword. His hand is cut open. He's fighting the window. No, no, no, no, no. You guys no more nog guys. That's our fight here. Yeah, no, no guys. Fights. Fitsy's got a sword. No, Fitsy's really badly wounded. God, God, no, I know you shouldn't be using those though. No, but let's get going. No, no, no, no, no, come on. No more nog. God, Barry. No, no more. No, all right, one nog. Finally they broke and the real morning bugle was sounded. Commandant William Worth had by this point come to put an end to the chaos. Just his presence ended the man. Oh boy. Party's over. Worth saw men strewn on stairways and leaning on railing. Glass was smashed, glass was everywhere. The men gathered in assembly area at around 7am. Oh man, so uncomfortable. All the men from the South Barracks completely sober, woke shocked to find such a scene of destruction. Wind has been smashed along with the building's furniture. Banisters have been ripped from stairways, thrown down with other rubble. Shards of shattered plates, dishes and cups were on the ground. Meanwhile, the North Barrack cadets stumbled out of the barracks, closed horn. Many were barefoot, swearing, threatening Academy officials and obviously still very drunk. Jesus Christ. Coming out with no shoes and a torn shirt. Oh fuck you, my fuck. Fuck my dick, Lieutenant. Sit down, son. Sit down. Fuck you shitbag face. I traded my shoes for rums. Sound the fife. Jesus Christ. Some men remained in the rooms and continued drinking. What? Man, those guys, legends, champions. Legends. Champions. Behind the cadets who attempted to line up in a parade formation, West Point's North Barracks stood in a state of near ruin. Two cadets were hugging and crying and laughing. An ever increasing group of men were ignoring roll call or answering yes to every name called. Yep. President. To their huge delight. President. Monroe. Here. Check it. Here. Smiths. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Hamilton boasted of his drum playing. Well, it's time for Hamilton to shut the fuck up. I'm really good at this. I'm really good at the drum. I'm one of the best at the drums. You're telling me drum or drummelton. I am a drum. Yeah, I'm a drum. Oh boy. I think I'm going to puke on the five. Some still cried out that the Bombadiers were coming. This is just chaos. Men smashed windows on their way to roll call. So a guy hears the roll call horn and he's just walking there throwing rocks at windows as he goes. It's an either or. Just keep rioting or go to roll call. The officers just stood there taking notes. Roll call was finally abandoned due to chaos. Oh Jesus Christ. During breakfast, fights continued to break out in the mess hall. How is, I mean, how are they not getting it a little undercut? How is breakfast happening? I think they're so hammered they can't and there's so many of them. They're just like, okay, just let them go until they Peter. Oh, so they are just like, what? They're just watching. They're just watching and taking notes at this point. After breakfast, they went to chapel for a two hour service. Well, I'm sure that that was very, very religious. 22 cadets were then placed under house arrest until further notice. Among them was Jefferson Davis, who had been reported as one of the criminals by Hitchcock and Thornton. About a third of the cadets, approximately a hundred men had been involved in what would come to be known as the eggnog riot. Wow. Finally, the craziest riot name ever. Yep. An inquire was open after almost a month of investigation. The decision was made to court martial 19 cadets for their conduct on Christmas Eve. And dining too many men would have reflected poorly on the Academy by reinforcing its old image of an place of anarchy. Oh, they are chose to deal with only the most aggressive offenders. Oh, the inquiry included testimony from 167 witnesses. Holy shit. The gentlemanly code of honor among the cadets and what they saw as their moral obligation to tell the truth meant that thousands of pages of transcriptions of the accounts of men had been collected. By March 8, 11 cadets found that they no longer were allowed to wear the gray and were dismissed from West Point. These were the ones who had smuggled the whiskey, the cadets who incited the riots, and several others. Those expelled included Fitzgerald, Guillaume, and Stalker. The eight cadets were given, eight other cadets were given a reprieve, including Mad Billy Murdock, Private John Dugan. The man who had taken the 35 cents at the river. Okay, I'm really sorry. I mean, really, that guy was the seed. Yeah, he was sentenced to one month hard labor and forfeited a whiskey ration for the same period. Okay. Thornton was assaulted with a club in 1828 by Cadet and that Cadet was given the death penalty, which was later commuted. Thayer continued to strengthen West Point as an academic institution, leaving in 1833 having influenced other institutions, including Harvard and the US Naval Academy. He died in 1872 having never married. His remains were buried at West Point. No charges were filed against Jefferson Davis. Turns out Jefferson Davis had missed almost everything. Instead of following his friends and resisting arrest, Davis stumbled back to his room, threw up and passed out cold. It's a nice pass out right there. In his memoirs, Davis would claim that he didn't name names, but in fact, records show that he implicated his roommate in the melee when his roommate returned to their dorm, woke Davis up and loaded his gun. Morning. Hey, what's going on? Good morning, Brad. Just giving us a tick off. You're not getting name names, right? No, shut your mouth, Davey. Davis graduated at the bottom of his class. All right. The American American Academy brewed a long lasting hatred for Yankees. In 1861, he was inaugurated as the president of the Confederate States of America. What? He continued to love eggnaug. Yeah, he was the. Oh, that's the guy. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. That's so it. Bottom of the class. Yep. Okay, cool. Yeah, bottom of the class, total drunk idiot. Hey, president of the Confederacy. Come lead us in our normal beliefs. Hitchcock left and came back to West Point as commandant. He then left again and was promoted to major in 1838. By 1842, he achieved the rank of Lieutenant Colonel in the Third Infantry Regiment. In command of Fort Stansbury, he served in the Seminole War in Florida and in the Mexican American War, where he served as General Wendellford, Scottson Specter General in the March on Mexico City. He even received a Brevet promotion to Colonel, which is like a. You get it for exemplary actions in battle. Okay. For Conturros and to Brigade General for Molino Del Rey in October, 1855, he resigned from the army following a refusal by Secretary of War, Jefferson Davis to extend a four month leave as of absence that he had requested for reasons of health. Interesting. Yeah. How about that? Funny how that worked out. Hey, you remember the eggnaug, right? Motherfucker. Yeah. You know, I was just gonna, I wanted to say, you know, I was my bitch. I'm your bitch and yeah. And I love it. So you can't have what you want. What you asked me for something? Ask me for something. I'm your boss. Ask me. Will you forgive me? Nope. Can I use a pencil? Can I? Do you want something else? Is there any way to get a buck? We know. And it was. Nope. Can I kiss you? Nope. Kiss me? Kiss you. Do you see how this is working? Yeah, not well. Okay. Okay. These days, not many current cadets at West Point know about the eggnaug, eggnaug, right? Yeah, I'm sure they're like, uh, yeah, nothing. None of the buildings from the eggnaug, right remain on West Point's present day campus, but the riots did have a lasting impact on the campus's architecture. In the 1840s, when new barracks were built, they included short hallways that required cadets to exit the building entirely in order to access another floor. This built in this building crowd control made it harder for cadets to get out of hand and gather in large numbers. Wow. West Point no longer has a grand holiday celebration. Why? And where there are parties, access to alcohol is extremely limited. So the odds of rowdy cadets drinking too much of the good stuff remains the stuff of legend. Holy shit. That's something. Yeah. An eggnaug fueled West Point riot? Yeah. Yeah, that's something. I mean, it's probably easy to tear those buildings down though after the kids got involved. Yeah. Man, it's not much. The foundation just needs to be stripped. That should be a movie. Oh, God, are you kidding me? Yeah. It's nuts. It's fucking incredible. Yeah. It's Animal House on Eggnaug with West Point. It really is. It really is. Even down to the 0.0. Jesus. God bless America.