 I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gera. Steve okay? Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to Tickly Quad guys. Okay. You are queen fakie of made up town. All hail Queen Shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle and do what? Pray. Hi, Gary. No. I see you've done, my friend. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. F*** off. Asshole. I learned it from watching you. Come at me with this bullshit. All right, bro. Sorry. All right. Now you're just giving me the desk stare. So, whenever you want to shout the f***ing date, just shout it. bipartisan March 5th, 1863. Super surprising. Henry Frank Fawcett was born in Meridian, Texas. He had two brothers. Ranching was the main way one made a living in Meridian and the biggest landowner was the most important person in town. The Fawcett family was the most distinguished in Bosc County. Frank's father, Henry, was a lawyer and a county judge. His uncle, Captain Sam Fawcett, a Civil War hero who after the war became county sheriff. The Fawcett's own half of Bosc County. Okay. So they're no shit. They're no fucking shit. No, they're, well, aren't they, aren't they the shit? They are the shit. Yeah. When they were young, the three Fawcett brothers weren't interested in hard work or public service. Cool. They preferred drinking and gambling. Oh boy. Here we go. Frank had a few around his little law, including the theft of a calf from a farmer at age 13. Gee, that's a little early for calf theft. What's it, what do you do with a calf? What do you steal the calf at 13 for? What do you do with it? Come on. You also have a giant fucking ranch. Like what are you taking a month for? It's for the love of the game, dude. It's not about the prize. It's about the adrenaline. He was once fined $25 plus cost for disturbing religious worship on a Sunday. You can only imagine. Yeah. I mean, if you're getting fined, you got to be pretty loud. Frank also began carrying a gun within the town limits. Okay. So things are good with Frank. Yep. Cool. When he was 18, Frank married 14 year old Gussie in 1881. No questions. That's what you did then. Yeah. You found a girl who just was about to hit puberty. Yep. And you made sure she had the craziest name on earth and then you wedded her. I wedded the shit out of her. 14. One day a black man was making what Frank called untoward comments to his young wife. Yeah, like, hey, she's 14. And he shot him. Oh, Jesus. Dead. Oh, he got him. He shot him dead. That's how bad he shot him. That's the worst amount you could shoot someone. But nothing would come of it because the faucets practically own meridian. Cool. Yep. The boys never got more than a slap on the wrist. The marriage to 14 year old Gussie wasn't destined for longevity. What? He died while giving birth in January 1884. The child died too. Everybody died. Came out the side, I guess. So we're at a kill count of three so far on this small. Right now we got three dead. All right, good. But Fawcett jumped back on the horse and later that year married Helen Thomas, ex-wife of a county judge who already had her own daughter. Nine years old. Not even a year. No. He's like, I'll take another lady. Yeah, well, no. Yeah, sounds like you got over Gussie fast. Really quick. Yep. She was loud. Together they had two more children, Ada and William, but meridian was too small for Frank. He and Ellen moved to Fort Worth, the gateway to West Texas. Oh boy. This guy in Texas. Not sure how I feel. Frank showed little regard for the law or other men in his new town. Although not physically imposing, he was quick to take offense and unafraid to start a fight. Hey, cool. I'm out of strength when you got crazy. I'm out of my fucking mind. Yeah. No, I know that you know how to box, but I'm also out of my tits, so look out. He carried a six shooter as most professional gamblers did and he knew how to use it. Gambling was Frank Fawcett's calling. It was a lot easier than raising or stealing cattle and it was more lucrative than any other line of work for him. Okay. Fort Worth presented limitless opportunities for gambling. There was no dearth of saloons or of suckers begging to be relieved of their cash. The lower class men did the drinking and gambling in the Hell's Half Acre district on the south end of town. Sounds gorgeous. If this right now, this sounds like a almost a hacky Western movie. Going down to Hell's Half Acre. Watch out for them Fawcett boys. They're Laki. The Laki Fawcett. They can't be arrested and they're bad. Yeah. They own this town. They're married nine year olds. The fancy saloons line main street on the north end of town, including the border trade, the cabinet saloon, the Palais Royale and the white elephant. Each placed a screen just inside the batwing doors to block the view from more genteel passer bys. So they put up screens so that people couldn't see how fucking insane things were? They didn't work with that in movies. No. So they wouldn't. It's bad for shooting. Yeah. Right? Yeah. We can have that. No, we'll make swinging doors, these sort of doors that open up. And then there's a big black thing behind it. Yes, exactly. Yeah. The real action took place upstairs with a second story of gambling rooms catered to highbrow clientele. The Palais Royale and white elephant competed for the title of Fort Worth's premier saloon. The Royal had been in business since 1888. It had a carved antique oak bar with a marble base, a tiled floor and wine rooms in the back for ladies. Lovely. The owner of the gambling room at the Royal died in 1893, which led to faucet overseeing the nightly Kino, Pharaoh and poker games. Okay. So I'm going to guess that now that he's in charge, everything gets better and this is going to be over soon. Yeah. It's the story of a man who made good. Yeah. A guy who had control. Yeah. With himself and with others. Yeah. And he ended up giving all of the gambling money to the church. Gosh, this guy. To save babies. Oh gosh, this is great. One of faucets employees was Greene Duret, known professionally as Doc Carver. Okay. Completely different name. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. That's not much. One name has nothing to do with the other. Nope. It's not a nickname. It's a new name. It's a completely different name. Yes. Doc back then did not mean someone who was a doctor. It meant he was good at gambling. Interesting. Must be. I mean, when times get to doctor. All right. Here we go. Here's the doc. No, the doctor. Oh, sweet God. She's what's wrong with her? Here's an aid of spade. Here. And this is some throwing dice. She has a fever. Look, you called for me. I don't know what to tell you. Does she want to play gin rummy? Okay. So threes are wild. Okay. Threes are wild. And she's bleeding a lot. Threes are wild. She's bleeding a lot. Yeah. All right. Let's do just a straight five car step. Okay. Are you sure this is? I think so. I'm sorry. Just looking now. But while you're dealing, she is she's dead. Yeah, this is. Oh, two of a kind. Oh, damn it. She would have won. Yeah, that's a shame. God bless her. So doc came from Georgia. Carver had been the carver had the usual pasty complexion of a man who spent his nights gambling and his days sleeping. Cool. Vampire skip. Doc also had a log to stream of convictions across Texas for disturbing the peace at gaming houses. He had lost the middle finger on his right hand during one fight. I mean, I mean, the possibilities of how the swear finger got got taken away is great. How do you, how do you, he must have a ring on or lose a finger? I've often wondered this. I've often wondered this. When did the middle finger become a thing? Like how like, when did the like gesturing with your middle finger? Yeah. Where did flipping off become a thing that people are like, whoa. I don't know. I mean, the first few times the inventor of the middle finger was probably like, people aren't understanding what I'm saying. This is a bad thing. Everybody keeps going. Yeah. Number one, two. No, not number one. I'm saying, fuck you. I'm saying, this is my way. I'm saying, fuck you. This means, fuck you. Number one. No, fuck you. Fuck you. He must have got a shot off or something. Yeah. So he's given some middle fingers. So if it's a threatening, if it's a threatening gesture at that time and he had it up, someone could he just shot it off, cut it off, ripped it off, bit it off. Like many gamblers, Doc carried a hidden gun whenever the law started breathing down his neck, he would skip town, always landing in another town where the law was more tolerant and was bullshit. In his early forties now, Carver was a bachelor who carried all he owned in a carpet bag. Cool. That's attractive. It's a good sign. Yeah. He should be the next bachelor. When a dude rolls in with just a carpet bag, you're talking about a quality gentleman. My name's Doc Carver and this is my life. So there you go. No, I do not have a finger. No, I do not have a finger and I do not have a ring on this finger either available. That's how Carver came to Fort Worth around 1895. Okay. You quickly found employment as a dealer at the at the Royal. Oh boy. He had no trouble getting hired as he had known Fawcett professionally for about 15 years. He boarded a few years with Frank and Helen Fawcett at their house on West 1st Street before moving down the street in October 1898 to a room at Ms. Nichols boarding house. So he's buddies with Fawcett. Yeah, so he's buddies with Fawcett so he gets the job because they know each other professionally, which if you're professional in their eyes is not good. No, just another wonderful gambling. Yep, just a professional shithead. Things going smoothly until one Monday in May 1899 when Fawcett fired Carver for reasons that are still not completely known. But it may have had something to do with a recent fight Carver had with a customer. The fight had left Carver with a permanently crippled wrist. It was described to be bent like a finger. Oh, okay. Let me just picture that. So it's a wrist that's bent like. Oh my God. Like, yeah, like down and like. So he's got almost like a hook. Okay, he's got like J arm. Yeah, it's good J arm. It's called in the medical medical. He's speaking. He suffered from J arm. Oh, J arm. So he's out here. So he's missing a finger and he has a fucked up wrist. You hope it's the same hand though. I bet it's not him. If it's not like no, people like, how'd you lose the finger? You're like, that's the good one. Ignore the J arm. Fuck you. Oh, God damn it. Here, look, look at this curve. Now, if you see closely, I'm holding up the fuck you finger. What is that? Like an upside down seahorse? No. Fuck you. Is that an upside down seahorse? Fuck you. A crippled dealer back then was a pointless dealer. So I think we could, and I'm not even trying to be an asshole. We could say the same now. I mean, like if you, someone's hand was like that in Vegas, you'd be like, well, look, I want the $5 blackjack table, but I'm not going to take an hour of hand over here. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, cool. I'm like, I can hold the cards like this. Yeah, I'm actually looking to actively gamble. I can stick them in my claw. Oh boy. Look, I got all the cards in my claw. I was kind of looking over here like, why is no one at this table? And the one for you? No, you flipped it. You're not supposed to flip that card. Sorry. Jesus Christ. I am dealing with a claw. All right. You know what? I'm out. And one for you. One for you. One for you. Okay. One for you. They go, they don't go where I want them to go. Yeah. That's a problem for dealing. So this is why Fawcett fired Carver. Okay. Because he was. And there's not any workman's comp back then. And I'm sure you wouldn't get it for fighting with a customer anyway. No, he's out of a job. He's got. He's out of a job. Got Jay Armand is missing his middle finger. No workman's comp. Carver believed he had been badly treated, but instead of leaving Fort Worth, he stayed around trying to catch on at another saloon. But no one would hire him because he was all bent and missing parts. Yeah. He grew more bitter by the day and told anyone who had listened that Fawcett ran a crooked house. Oh boy. So now this was the worst thing one could do to a gambling house back then. Right. Their reputation was everything, but Carver wasn't done. He started rumor about Fawcett's wife, Helen and her teenage daughter saying they were whoring about town. It really is. This has come up on a couple of it dollars. Where it's just there is this time. He just if you were pissed, you just called a guy's wife a whore. And that was what the fuck did you do? That was it. Yeah, that's it. It's on. Well, you know, she's whoring. What? Yeah. Sir. So on Monday afternoon, May 29th, a mutual acquaintance of both men told Fawcett that Doc was spouting threats and speaking disrespectfully of his wife and daughter stepdaughter. That's called snitching. Yeah. Okay. As a snitch. Yeah. Snitching about snatch. Wow. What? Fort Worth was not big enough for the two men to avoid each other. One day about five p.m. Carver left the cabinet saloon and was walking past the royal. Fawcett had been drinking with some buddies when he stepped out of the royal and found himself looking at Carver. Both men were surprised when they came face to face. Okay. Carver tried to brush past Fawcett and enter the saloon. Whoa. So he's like, excuse me. Pardon me. Excuse me. I'm just coming in for a drink. Coming through. Yep. But Fawcett's buddies blocked the doorway. Doc could not get past them, but he did not want to way and look like a pussy. So he stood there a moment in awkward silence. And then purposefully ignoring Fawcett, he jokingly asked Warren Jeffries where he had bought his ugly pants. Okay. This is interesting. Interesting. Crazy smooth. Yeah. I mean, interesting. Hey, where'd you get them ugly pants, Warren? We're actually doing something else right now. Yeah. Plants is stupid. Listen, we'll get stupid pants. We will all beat the fuck out of you at a moment. Hey, dumb pants. All righty. Jeffries started to reply. Okay. So I love that Jerry's like, well, these pants ain't ugly. No. Or he was like, well, I got them down there. Actually, you know, at Ugly Joe's, it's just down the street a little bit. This place called Ugly Joe pants. Yeah, they have two for the price of one. You know, kind of how ugly they are. But Fawcett interrupted Jeffries. He demanded to know what Carver had been saying quote about me and my house. Carver responded any damn thing I please talk to the hook. Talk to the hook, truck. That was pretty much all that was needed. Fawcett was standing on the saloon's front step, which put him about six inches above dock. Instead of reaching for the pistol, he had hidden under his coat. Fawcett kicked Carver right in the balls. Oh, yeah. Classic old West. Wow. You don't see that enough in the old West movies. Also you do have an advantage being up six inches in a situation like that. That gives you an extra sort of like six inches of arc. It's easy to kick a dude in the balls who's down the stairs. What if he got kicked so hard his hand went straight? Thank you. Holy shit. I'm growing a middle finger too. His middle finger is like. Oh my God. It's like Pinocchio's nose. Carver doubled over like a guy who had just been kicked in the balls. Yeah, with a high heel advantage. Carver then rose and charged forward and got a hand around Fawcett's neck. I bet I know which hand. Fawcett grabbed Carver and they struggled for a moment for crashing through the swinging doors. Okay. There wasn't a lack of witnesses to the fight. His buddies, Bill Neighbors and Warren Jeffries were standing beside him when the fight started and expecting a gunfight to break out. They took off running. Cool dude. Yeah, great friends. Electrician Lee Stevens had the best view. He was putting up lights over the entrance at the time giving him an elevated view. So it's literally it's like a fucking Western. The whole thing like there's a guy just above putting up lights. There's a guy about to fall onto a chandelier and swing. You know, just because. Billy Morrison, owner of the restaurant across the street was sitting at the front table by the window. And he did a spit take. He looked at his he looked at his he looked back at his wife and went, Martha, we're going to need some coffins. Once the fight moved inside the Royal Dullfuss Hill, the bartender witnessed everything. Hill watches the two crashing into the cigar stand just inside the doorway. Okay. It's everything that could be stereotypical about an old Western. Welcome to stereotypes. Wanna whiskey? Y'all crashing the cigar stand. That'll be eight dollars. The next thing you know, this spittoon is going to fall off the shelf onto this dainty lady. Then holding on to each other, they stumbled around behind the partition screen like a hockey fight. Each man was holding on with one hand and punching away with the other. I mean, like I'm just picturing the claw, the J claw like that must have been what he's holding on with. I mean, I guess actually it's almost like pulling a bad performer off a stage with your hand. Exactly. Yeah, so he's just got that and he's punching him with his fingerless left. So at around 180 pounds, Carver outweighed Fawcett by at least 10 pounds. One at six feet. He was also taller, but Fawcett was eight years younger and described as a wiry active man. Okey-dokey. Although Carver's bent wrist put him at a disadvantage, he finally managed to get Fawcett into a headlock and punched away. Okay. Fawcett then twisted free, reached under his coat and turned back around holding a 45. Wow. See. Carver grabbed the gun and pulled it down with one hand while continued to punch away with the other. Wow. Fawcett has been a great goon. Yeah. He's been a great NHL player. Yeah, for sure. This dude brought a gun to a hook fight. They continued to wrestle over the position of the gun, but Fawcett had two hands on it and Carver just won. A shot rang out. Carver stumbled backwards, bleeding and fell to the floor. A bullet was in his lower right leg. He rolled to the right and tried to get up, but Fawcett stepped closer and shot him again this time through the left shoulder. But Doc was not done. So Fawcett aimed dead center and put a third bullet into him. Now sprawled on the rubber mat in front of the bar, Carver fixed his gaze on Fawcett and growled, you damn cur. You knew I had no gun and you came to match a fight with me. He then looked over to the bartender and said, save me. Oh, Jesus. Yeah, it's not good, right? No, that's not good. Two of Fawcett's buddies had entered the saloon after the shooting stopped and they heard him say, you've been trying to match a fight with me for some time and now you've gotten one. Okay. Yeah. Good. So grammar was important. Yep. With three bullets still left in his gun, Fawcett then backed out of the saloon, keeping his gun aimed at Carver as he moved. Doc was a bloody mess and slipping into a coma. Outside Fawcett lowered his gun and calmly sat down in the chair near the entrance. He handed the gun to a friend and just sat there waiting for the sheriff. He arrived within five minutes, took the murder weapon and placed Fawcett under arrest. He was taken straight to justice of the peace. RF Millum in the courthouse four blocks away. A crowd had gathered in front of the saloon. A few of the men walked inside where the scared bartender still stood behind the bar. I bet he was taking shots, right? If this is the movie I'm thinking of. Yeah, yeah, for sure. Yeah. Yeah. And then the rookie walked in and peed. Calm down, Bobby. We're going to need to talk. Don't take too much of it. Oh, Carver lay on the ground, somehow still breathing. When they opened his shirt for a better look at the wounds, the damage done by the 45 became very apparent. One bullet had shattered his left shoulder, passed through both lungs and exited the right side. I'm sorry. So this is the magic bullet. Was it a cartoon bullet? It was a ping-a-dee-ping. Was it an animated bullet? Yeah, it was a ping-a-dee-ping and it screamed as it went. And when it like went through one lung and it was exiting the body, it went, and turned around and went through the other. Pretty much. Okay. The other bullet went into the lower abdomen. It had also passed clear through. Either of the wounds would have been fatal. They searched his clothes but found no weapon, which meant bad things for Fawcett. Small towns expected swift trials and justice. Judge Milan convened an immediate coroner's inquest, ordered all available witnesses to attend and took testimony. The jury voted for an indictment for second-degree murder. The case was set for trial on June 12th before Judge William D. Harris of Texas's 17th judicial district. The sheriff summoned some 200 men for a jury pool. Fawcett was then granted bail by Judge Harris. He posted $6,000 and went home. Okay. Doc Carver was buried on May 31st. No one was able to reach his family in Georgia. His friends chipped in for the funeral. Conducting the great side service was Reverend J.B. Buchanan, who didn't even know the deceased. Okay. So this guy... What can you say about Carver that hasn't been said already? He was a... Not a doctor. He had a hook as a hand and then he was missing a finger. And... That's all I got. Anybody else got anything to say? Yeah. Anyone else? Yeah, yeah. He hated ugly pants. Oh, yeah, he got arrested a lot. Oh, yeah, he got arrested a lot. Yep. Okay. So he had a J hand. Yep. He had a missing finger. Yeah. He was not a doctor. Right. Hated ugly pants. Yep. And got arrested a lot. Okay. All right. Put him under. Get the dirt going. Move the dirt. Frank Fawcett's trial lasted five days. Gambler's lawyers in Laman took the stand. Very few character witnesses testified for Carver. A character witness is somebody who's like a heightened sketch character, right? Yes. Okay. And one of those who did testify for Carver was his landlady. He always paid the rent on time. He was very nice. And missing that finger. I tell you what that did. I cannot tell you the things. No, no further questions. You can do that with the fingers. No further questions. Okay. Ma'am, no further questions. It's like... No further questions, ma'am. A lot of witnesses testified on Fawcett's behalf. Okay. And then they'd shown up for the dude who killed the guy. Yeah, of course. Showing what the gambling world thought of dead guys versus alive guys and also what meant to become from a powerful family. Then Fawcett himself took the stand. He didn't really help himself very much. Really? He said he had planned to kill Carver one way or another, which completely destroyed his self-defense. As his lawyers head hit the table. Ah, fuck me, Frank. Jesus Christ, I didn't even think I had to tell you that. Oh, Franky! I said... Jesus, the guy was swinging at you and was trying to kill... Oh, right. That. That's what I meant. He matter-of-factly testified that if he had been carrying a shotgun at that moment, he would have killed Carver in front of the saloon. Ah, you're not helping! Why'd you hire me, buddy? Oh, boy. You really took that oath to heart, huh? Anyway, that's me testimony. Alright. So, I think that's good. Well, I'm good to go then, yeah? Alright. Now, which way's the exit? I'm a little confused. I had a hammer. Does this lead to the street? Crashed his skull in with it. Alright. And I will be leaving now. If I had an iron boot, I would have squished his brain into maze. Now, which way to the... Which way to the outside? Here I go. Just 18 days after the killing, the trial went to jury at 5 p.m. At noon the next day, the jury returned its verdict, finding Fawcett guilty of murder in the second degree. He was sentenced to 25 years in the state pen. Fawcett's lawyers filed a motion for a new trial and appeared directly to the Court of Criminal Appeals. In November, the appeals court reversed the verdict and ordered a retrial. Okay, why? I never could find a reason. I looked through everything. Just for shits and gigs? Yep. In May 1900, Fawcett was back in a Fort Worth courtroom this time before Judge Irby Dunklin. Oh, what a sweet name. Great question. Oh no, you got Judge Irby? Irby the love judge? Quitsitently, that very week, Judge Dinklin and Judge Harris had exchanged districts. Okay. Wait. Hey, you just want to randomly swap districts? Okay. Yeah, I don't have any questions. Yeah, there's nothing happening. Fawcett. Right now, there's no reason why I would do that. You know what I mean? It's like a wife swap. Yeah, let's just switch. But for districts. Let's just switch with this big trial. Fawcett. Yeah, okay. The state was again seeking a conviction for second degree murder. The defendant's attorneys asked for a change of venue but were overruled. Before the court wrote the judgment in the docket, defense attorneys announced they had a demurre demurre. No, they had a demurderer. Demurrre. Demurr. A demurr against the judgment. The word demurr means to object. A demurr is a document that makes the objection. Okay. So it's a piece of paper. So it's a little harder than we all thought it was. It's a stupid name for a piece of paper. Sure, a demurr. Then the... Call it an objection paper. Then the defense attorney said he had an authority supporting his demurr but had left it at his office. So he had to go get it. He was allowed to. Oh, cool. That's normal. I'm going to be right back with the thing that says the stuff. All right, let's get a literal recess. You good? We will wait. That's a good dog. Yeah. A break was taken by the court. The judge went to his chambers. After 30 minutes, the defense attorneys returned with the demurr and the judge looked it over and immediately overruled it. It's a long dog. So he immediately gets the piece of paper and goes, nope. Okay. Wow, it came closer when you closed the window. I should open it again. Let's just leave it as a nice ambiance. No, there's a leaf blower coming too. So things are about to get good. Then the court looked to faucet to enter his plea and hello. Where was Frank? He was not in the courtroom. Wait. I found out that sometime during the proceedings, Frank faucet had just walked out of the courtroom. No one had noticed. He had disappeared until it was too late. I mean, that is balls. It had been nearly 30 minutes since anyone had seen Frank. Apparently, straight up strolled out. Apparently he walked straight out of town on a seven street, flagging down a boy on a wagon and paying him $2 for a lift to Benbrook, 10 miles southwest of town. Frank faucet caught a westbound Texas and Pacific train and that was the last anyone ever saw. Wow. Holy shit. I mean, he's a fucking asshole. Yeah, but that move is that standing right outstanding. Newspapers called it the sensation of the time and probably the most remarkable escape ever made from Fort Worth by a prisoner. The Meridian Tribune said the last scene of faucet, he was walking down Main Street with his easy swinging gate, making considerable time without seeming to be in a hurry. Well, yeah, if you walk, if you start up, just walk out of a courtroom like you own the place. You're going to keep that going. It is the duty of the trial court in a felony case to put the defendant who is on bail and the custody of the sheriff before the trial commences and the bail money is returned. Okay. Make sense? No. So the court. So the guy, I guess back then you get at it, you're in prison, right? And then to get to the courthouse, he has to have a bail bondsman take him. Oh, okay. So at the beginning of the trial, they're supposed to put him in custody of the sheriff and then the bail money is given back, right? It was admitted that the sheriff never at any time took custody of the defendant. That's a big problem for this plan. And then at no time did the court order into custody of the sheriff, nor did the defendant, nor his attorneys, nor anyone else request that he should be placed in the custody of the sheriff. But the bail bondsman assumed he had been. So it's just the perfect storm of nobody asking anything. Okay. So after the change of venue request was overruled, the judge asked Fawcett to step forward. He was about to revoke his bail and place him in the custody of the sheriff, which made the Bosman who had brought him in from the jail think his job was over. So the first time they'd ever done this. So the bondsman left, but before the judge could order him into custody. So these like step forward and order you to custody the sheriff. But then and then the bail bondsman goes, all right, see ya. And then right then his attorney asked for the demure. So then it was, is that why he asked for the demure? No, no, well, maybe, but I think it was just a habit random. Okay. So at that point, Frank was like, Oh, no one's watching me. Feels like I should have watched as a potential murderer. I guess I should go. Well, so he just walked out. The court said it never intended for the sort of loophole. Oh, okay. It's like they didn't mean for it to happen. They searched for Fawcett as usual hangouts, but came up empty. Embarrassed sheriff Sterling P. Clark wired law enforcement agencies statewide to be on the lookout for Fawcett offering a reward for his capture. Some of the other agencies, there's another dog. Some of the other agencies added to the fun. In coming months, witnesses placed Fawcett in El Paso, New Orleans, Mexico, Cuba, and even South Africa. His family believes he went to Alaska and disappeared into the Sea of Miners in the Klondike Goldfields. What would you do for a Klondike field? What would you do for a Klondike field? Then meridian officials suddenly withdrew their reward offer and told the Tern County Sheriff that they had made a mistake. Their reward had been secured by a quote misapprehension of the facts. Fawcett, they now said was not a cold-blooded killer. Should Frank show up in Meridian, officials there would not arrest him and return him to Fort Worth. What? It's just a good, this is good having a rich family. Jesus Christ. The Tern County DA's office said they had pigeonholed the case, meaning they had given him given up on ever bringing Fawcett to justice. This suggested the case died of neglect as the victim had no money and friends to offer a fat reward or to foot the expense of sending officers across western states to chase him down. In the end, the Fawcett-Carver murder was about the western gambling culture where honor took strange forms and six guns were the court of highest appeal. One of the gamblers who testified at Fawcett's first trial was one armed Billy Thompson, another member of the local gambling fraternity. Eight years later, when Tern County authorities tried to close his gambling operation above Staggs Lynn, Thomason would shoot County Attorney Jefferson Davis McLean to death in broad daylight on Main Street. Jesus. So the dude just got to walk? Yeah, literally. Because no one was paying attention. He literally walked. Because no one was paying attention. Is that might be where walking comes from? It's the greatest thing ever where they're like, all right, step forward, the sheriff's gonna, what's up? Hey, we actually want to file this. Okay. Yeah. All right, so do you have it? No, I forgot it in my office. Okay. I'll go grab it. All right, so let's wrap this for 30. Okay, great. Cool. Put a pen in this, be right back. Yep. All righty. Everybody stay where they are. All right. Hey, anyone seen Fawcett? Ah, what? Oh, fuck. Oh, we didn't do the thing. The thing you're supposed to do. Shit. Oh, man, we are dumb. Wow. That has to be, I mean, again, like he's obviously a piece of shit, but that has to just be such a great feeling. Oh, to just walk? Yeah, well, the idea that you're going to jail, you're like, you're done. Yeah, 25 years. You're done. And this is maybe like the last day of your bullshit. Yeah. And then right before, you know, shit gets real, you're like, pretty sure I could probably just straight up walk out of here. Nobody's paying attention. All righty. Damn. Say, friend, could I borrow two bucks? Wow, that's nuts. Yeah. Fuck. Old West. Yeah, normal. This dollop is brought to you by noise. Now it's quiet. Yeah, now it's quiet. Dogs and leaf blowers, noise. They fucked off for the end.