 Hello. What's happening? You're listening to the dollop. This is a Dave by weekly American History podcast. Each week. I read a read a story from American History. To my friend. Gareth Reynolds who has no idea what the topic is about. Dave. Gareth Reynolds. Dave. David. Who has no idea what the topic is about. David. David. We'll be right back. Oh my god. After this message. Dave. Oh my god. Do you want to look who to do? I'll do one bottle. People say this is funny. Not Gary Gareth. Dave okay. Someone or something is tickling people. Is it for fun? And this is not going to come to tickling people. Okay. You are queen fakie of made up town. All hail queen shit of Liesville. A bunch of religious virgins go to mingle. And do what? Pray. Hi Gary. No. Has he done my friend? No. No. No. Hola Gareth. Hi Dave. December 26th. Oh boxing day. 1898. All right. Marie and Pierre Curie announced they had discovered uranium. Sorry. Sorry. Radium. I started out. Either way. I'm fine. I have announced they have discovered radium. What proud to announce we've discovered radium. Hello. Is this on? Is this thing on? Radium is highly radioactive and the Curie's notebooks are now stored in a lead box. Okay. Of radium. It's so it's so it gives off radioactive. Yeah. So it's just like you've got to keep their fucking notes in a box because you'll get you'll get radiation poisoning from holding their notes. Oh Jesus. It's fucking serious shit bro. What were they doing over the holidays? People were shopping. Anyone who wants to consult the with the papers must sign a waiver stating they understand the health risk. What? No papers are worth your life. If you're signing a waiver to touch a notebook it's not it's not worth it. No get in there. No don't get in there. All of all of the dollops notes are the same thing. Oh god just in like a glowing bin. Sign a waiver. This new element seemed to possess some magical qualities. It glowed in the dark and gave off heat. It left if left against skin it would burn and leave a scar. And it stopped Superman. It hurt Superman. It was the only thing that hurt Superman. The curies both had cracked and scarred hands from constantly handling your radium. They really were soulmates. They just hold them this and they're like this is hot. You really really found the one if you guys are going to be like spend the holidays with radium hand. Yeah. Radium hand. So they also suffered other health problems which are now recognized as symptoms of radiation poisoning. Sure. Somebody had to find out. The first guy in there was the first guy in there. Not going to go well. Because our Curie. Pierre Curie died in a car accident in or a coach accident in 1908. Like he was like coaching a team and like had a heart attack. He died. He died coaching him. Come on guys remember what. Boys. You're worse than radium. Marie lived until 1934 when she succumbed to a plastic anemia most probably due to long term exposure to radiation. Sure. William Joseph Hammer was a lab assistant to Thomas Edison and assisted in the development of the incandescent light bulb. Okay. In 1902 the Curies gave him a sample of radium. Okay. Interesting. Hammer was convinced radium contained curative powers and was one of the first to propose it as a cure for cancer. Okay. Well. Yeah. Radiation is a cure for cancer. Well, the radiation is still. It turns out it was hot. It turns out it was not. Hammer invented the radium dial. Radium dials are a watch clock or other instrument dials painted with radioluminescent paint containing radium two to six. So it glows in the dark. Okay. In 1914 in New York City Dr. Sabine Arnold von Schakofsky. What is Arnold doing in a name like that? I don't know. Arnold. I would have not put him Arnold. Well and Dr. George S. Willis much better. Just the consistent. Let's keep it just some consistency. Just relax with them. We're just asking for some consistency. They founded the Radium Luminous Material Corporation. Okay. In 1921 the company was renamed the United States Radium Corporation. They first started producing uranium but quickly moved into the business of producing radioluminescent paint. They opened facilities in Newark and Orange, New Jersey at the Orange facility. They extracted uranium processing half a ton of ore a day between 1917 and 1926. And sorry. We'll keep going. One ton of uranium ore will yield only about 0.14 grams of uranium. So they had to crank it out. But they but it was just for paint. Like the whole paint the dials on things. Yeah. So but it was just because of the color. They were using something. Get the glow in the dark. Right. Okay. It's just people love glow in the dark. You listen this much. Yeah. Okay. Quite a cost. The company's radioluminescent paint was marketed as undark. What is yeah. The different. It means it's not dark. Yeah. Undark. Such a big way. You could weigh catch your shit. It's terrible. Undark was a mixture of radium and zinc sulfide. The radiation in the radium would cause the sulfide to glow brightly. Demand for undark was very high during World War One as it was used to paint dials, watches and aircraft instrument panels used by the military. Okay. Let me I'm sure the pilots knew exactly what was going on. Yeah. Post war demand stayed high as undark was used to paint the dials of watch faces, clocks, light switches, house numbers, flashlights, compasses, motor vehicle instruments and even the buckles of slippers. Oh my God. Glowing feet. I can see. Oh, I can finally see the toilet. Look at this. 1917 and 1926 the US Radiate Radiant Corporation hired an all female workforce to paint watch faces and various instruments with undark. They were known as dial painters and earned around $3.75 a day. I think ABC is actually doing dial painters the show this fall. I love dial painters. Yeah. It's the response should a pan am. It's about to say pan am. I said it first. Is it the same thing though? They're all it's just like a they're all hot. Yeah, you've got you know, you've got your sassy one. You've got your affluent one. You've got your poor one. You've got your southern one old and you got your newbie. Yeah, exactly. And then you got the old grizzled. Yeah, the old grizzled vet. It's gonna be great. Dial painters tune in. The average so it would be made about $69 in today's money. The average wage for women in the 1920s was around $7 to $13 a week. Many single young women worked in factories doing piecework just as the Radiant Girls did that is they were paid piece by piece, not in a weekly sum. How crazy is it that the amount they were paid almost 100 years ago is not that different from today? It's not at all. I mean, it's it's it does it's not one of those things where you're like, whoa, I can't believe people work for that rate. That sounds like Mark would ideally be paying in this day. So the workers at the US Radiant Corporation factory would paint about 250 watch faces a day at a penny and a half per face. Wow. Hot money. That's a good job. Hot money. When you're getting paid in pennies. When they're putting halves on pennies, you're in a good spot. You're loving it. Factory management and the owners were aware that there were dangers involved in handling radium. Well, I'm sure the dial painters knew that too, David. The chemists and workers who were involved in the refinement of radium from uranium or were given every protection led screens, masks, tongs. Sure. So the dial, while the women employed to apply the radium paint were told that it was perfectly harmless. It's fine for women. Your brain won't get too messed up to do the dishes. Don't worry about that, my lady. And worse, in order to keep the delicate brushes at a sharp point, the women were told to run them between their lips. No fucking way. Oh, my god. Oh, that's so fucked up. Why? What could go wrong? I mean, look, I'm not saying it's okay to lie to these women and let them paint with red. But to rub it on their face, to just get it in the literally in their system. Yeah. That's fucked up. And at night, I guarantee you the husbands are like, honey, can you close your mouth? Just right as fuck right now. Just can you turn? Can you go? I'm trying to sleep. But if you could just close your mouth, I mean, if you could close your mouth, can we put something over your mouth, maybe? So the women would rub the brush between the lips hundreds of times a day. Oh, my god. For a laugh, sometimes they would paint their faces and teeth with undark to surprise family and friends at night. It's not even funny anymore, what you're suggesting. It's just not like, this is not funny. I mean, I mean, they would run it through their lips. Sometimes for a laugh, they put it all over their face. Sometimes they take shots of it. At this time, there was also a general belief that radium was a health tonic. In a good way with beauty creams being sold containing radium. Well, there's also radium butter butter with radium in it. Well, there was a heyday. It is Monsanto. I know I'm going like, how could we ever? This was the heyday of radium preparations being marketed to the public as a cure all for everything from chronic pain, rheumatism, high blood pressure, anemia, which is actually actually a symptom of radiation. Yeah, a lot of these. So if you had anemia, then you take the thing that gives you any of these things that are like that it's curing, it would be better to have those and not be trying to take the cure all. It is estimated that between 400,000 and 500,000 bottles of radium enriched water marketed as redditor were sold to the public between 19, 19, 18 and 1928. Good god. So just bottles of radiation. This isn't a time when we're like, well, we might have to bomb them because they have nukes. We're like, Hey, everybody, come to a radium party. You want a drink? Some have some Redditor was also manufactured in East Orange, New Jersey. Some of the advertising tag lines were a cure for the living dead. What? Huh? A cure for the living dead. What era is this? Are the who who what this is a tag? Yeah. I get any more. A cure for the living dead. So people were just comfortable with zombies until this. Okay. And perpetual sunshine. Okay, just when you thought vagueness had arrived. The owner of the company and head of the laboratories was listed as Dr. William J. A. Bailey. He was a dropout from Harvard, who was not a medical doctor. Cool. So the doctor parts not good. In 1932, Evan Byers, an American industrialist died. It is believed he drank over 1400 bottles of Radditor. What at his death he had lost most of his jaw had abscesses on his brain and holes forming in his skull. His death was directly attributed to cancer caused by exposure to radium. And he was buried in a lead lined coffin. I mean, he drank that that did not that didn't that was not a drink so much radium that he needed to be buried in lead. Yeah, that was not a cure for the living dead. No, and that did not. Jesus. He just and he was getting worse and he just kept drinking and going this is gotta turn around. So at some point all this radium will. Your jaw your jaw. My jaw is my jaw is your jaw. Your jaw has fallen off. Your jaw fell off. So you look like an extra in beetle juice. Pick your jaw up please. After his death, the Wall Street Journal ran with the headline radium water worked fine until his jaw came off. That was the headline is the editor of the publication. That was the headline. It doesn't make any it's like halfway. It's like halfway through they changed the headline. And they just kept it all like a stream of consciousness headline. Although this led to the decline of radium being marketed as a health tonic and increase in increase the powers of the FDA, it did not stop the founder of a red author from peddling his nuclear quack bullshit as he continued to market various radium related products such as a radioactive belt clip and a do your own device to make your own rather at home. Oh, God, what? Now that's even worse. So that's even worse. So his solution to people dying from the water he was doing. Separate the process to just give people yeah, just yeah to make it so. Okay, Nestle quick for radiation. Yeah, and your base and then at that point you're just like they decided to do it. They did. They wanted to sell it to them. They put it in their own water and they stirred it. Anyway, where are their jaws? Okay, radium acts like a calcium in the body. It's taken up by the bones and absorbed like calcium is. There is one key difference between the two ones out one's really good for your bones. And the other one really, really bad for bones. So for many of the women working on the dials, the first sign of problems would be their teeth falling out and broken jaws. Sweet God, what? But because they were ingesting trace amounts of radium each day, it took years for the signs of radiation sickness to become a parent. They had often already moved to other jobs by the time the signs showed up. They probably thought it was the other jobs to like, they're not going to typewriter. I told you the office work is killing me. I mentioned I used to be able to paint the water. I said I mentioned I used to be able to paint the water. I said I missed my own job a few days ago the heyday. The best job I ever had. The best job I ever had when I used to be able to paint water. I used to be able to paint water. And now I'm working in the office and looking at my job. The office I'm making my job parking out. I used to paint water. When current and former factory workers started to report mysterious illnesses. Oh, God. When those are started like that phone starting to ring a little more often than it used to. This is a woman babbling. I can't understand what you're saying on the phone. US radiation invited industrial hygiene experts Cecil and Catherine Drinker and William Castle to visit the factory in the early 1920s. Okay. They were faculty members at the Harvard School of Public Health, the HSPH. US radiation assumed that they would disprove the damaging effects of undark paint on the factory workers. But their jaws fell off. So just to just to sum up, they had in one part of this business, they had their their chemist guys decked out and not touching the shit using tongs and decked out and lead aprons and shit. And then they thought if they invited some people from Harvard down that they would walk in the other room with the ladies using the result of all that nonsense. And they'd be like, yeah, that's fine. Oh, that everything seems fine here. I don't see any problem. No messed up jaws in here right now. But when the Harvard people observed the women running the brushes between their lips, oh, God, and learned of them painting their faces, nails and feet for fun, they were horrified. Oh, God. Sometimes we'll just paint our faces to like a genius. Sometimes we'll just put it on our face and we'll drink it. Sometimes. Now, where did you say y'all are from? Scared town. Uh huh. They wrote a report to the company recommending extensive safety precautions and stated that the the illnesses were a result of exposure. Sure. Yeah. When the company learned that the HSPH intended to publish their report, US radiation threatened to sue saying it contradicted the findings of their own internal investigation. Internal investigation. They're always they always work out. All we ever have are like, they're fine. Internal investigation. You know what? I hold on. I will look into if I did anything fucked up. The NFL, the government, they're always like, well, we are going to really investigate and get to the bottom of this. I'm going to you know, I'm going to talk to myself over here in the corner and find some stuff out. I had a good long talk with myself and some of my best friends and we got to the bottom of this and it was not our fault. So we're firing this intern because fuck him. Okay. Onward and upward. US radiation then altered the HSPH report to show the company in a more favorable light. Well, that's not a report and submitted it to the New Jersey Labor Commissioner. Oh my God. And and what they printed it? When the HSPH learned that a doctored version of the report had been submitted. They ignored the threat of a lawsuit and published their original report. See, the most medical thing, the most medical attention throughout this whole thing that the radium side did was they doctored the article. Yeah, that's as close to clinical as they got. This led to the New Jersey Labor Commission ruling that all the recommended safety measures being implemented, which led to the closure of the factory in 1926. And yet the factory workers were unable to sue because for workplace injury, it wasn't established yet. You couldn't sue your right. You couldn't prove it. It was a great time in America when you couldn't sue your boss. Yeah, you just had 90 jawless women behind you. And you're like, look, what can I tell you? I don't know how to tell you girls. Hey, yeah, it was a job. You took the job. Hey, what? So what all your jaws stopped working? Let me ask you. Let me ask you a question. When I was interviewing you, did you ask me if your face would come off? No. Okay, then what's your what's your problem? You're a total. One of the first factory workers to exhibit signs of radium poisoning was Amelia Maggiom. She had worked for US Radium for four years. In her last year at the factory, she complained of constant tiredness, aching joints, a bleeding mouth, and rapid weight loss. I don't I wouldn't I don't know if you I don't know if complaining is the right word for a bleeding mouth. It's just a bleeding mouth. I don't think you're complaining. You don't like my mouth is dying. My mouth is bleeding again. Terribly worried about this blood mouth. When she visited her dentist to have a tooth removed, oh God, he was like sweet bastard. The bone of her jaw came away in her dentist's hands. No, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, no, you can't unhear that. Got the tooth. Oh my God, got a little bit more to let go. I got all. Oh, this was really impacted. I did not mean to. Good Lord was this an impact. It's almost your whole skull. I mean, this is horrible. But at the same time, I am so fucking strong. Did you see what happened there? Just I was so horrified. But then the second that it was comedy time, I got so excited that I just ignored what I had just felt. Well, it's become your the dollop is making you call us. Oh, God, I mean, her dentist was like, well, I did not sign up for this. Her whole jaw had to be removed. Oh, wow. She died in September 1923. Just before her 25th birthday. Oh my God. The cause of death recorded on her death certificate was ulcerative stomachitis. No, her jaw fell off right. Five years later, Harrison Martland, a medical examiner for Essex County, New Jersey was investigating the deaths of several women. How does it take so long to know? Well, no one gave a shit. I know, but it's insane. It's literally no one gave a fuck. Plus, this is the time when like kids were working coal mines like nobody gave a shit. And women, you know what I mean? Yeah, whatever. We'll get a new one. There you can get a new woman whose face isn't falling off. Yes, get a new one. That one only has half of her head. So this medical examiner is investigating the deaths of several women who had worked for US Radium Corporation. He suspected radium poisoning and he sought the help of toxicologist Alexander Gettler of the New York City Medical Examiner's Office. They had Amelia's body exhumed. In a dark room, Gettler placed her bones on x-ray film and wrapped them in a photographic paper. Well, at this point, we're like her bones x-raying x-rays. Like she's so radio. Okay. Yeah. Is that what they're just putting? Yeah, they're just putting her bones on x-ray film. Okay. And then they did a control sample with bones from a corpse that had not been exposed to radiation. Were there any differences? The bones were left in a dark room for 10 days. And then when they unwrapped the bones, they found a quote consolation of pale spots against a dark background indicating radiation was still present and Maggia's bones five years after her death. The film is still unsafe to touch her bones. The film with the control bones that not have any radiation. Yeah, she's her bones are irradiated her bones. She's she's dangerous to touch. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you can't I mean, her bones she's dead. Right. So what should I have again? Jaw failure tummy heart burn heart bad tummy. You should have a bad tummy from drinking nuclear waste. More and more factory workers started to present symptoms of radiation sickness. So the company claimed the symptoms were due to syphilis. Interesting, interesting curveball company. They've been over fucking. Hey, a lot of your women in your factory are dying. You mean the horse. Oh, man, that is a real. Yeah, that's a that you got to like that move because everyone's like, well, I did not see that coming. I mean, they had a meeting. Yeah. Oh, yeah. That down had a meeting. All right. So we're all signing off syphilis. We're syphilis. We're going with the worst. Huh? The worst thing. All right. What about AIDS? Not here yet. No, I've asked you to stop suggesting that for everything. That's from the future. All right. Now what do we think for lunch? AIDS. I said stop stop with the thing that's not here yet. All right. So they're trying to smear the women saying their horse even after being confronted with the findings of the New York Medical Examiner's office. The president of US radiation Clarence Lee refused to admit liability. This guy's going down with the ship, huh? Kept blaming the ladies. The goddamn women. It's the women. He said they had hired a lot of women who were physically unfit. We hired unfit whores crippled. They can't walk these unfit whores. That's who we hired. And now because they had hired these crippled women, the women were using their crippleness against them. They're just you've heard it a million times from the cripple community. Oh Christ, they came in without faces. They're their their their whores, their cripples and now they're blaming me. The only guy who ever cared for them. These whores were cripples who fucked too much. These whore crippled fucked machines. Unsafe whores. It's a true that they were licking radiation. The whores, the whores, whores lick everything. You couldn't stop them from licking. What am I going to do? They thought they were penises because they suck their whores. Fucking licking whores. Oh man, they can't walk. They couldn't walk when they came in the whores. One former employee, Grace Fryer, decided to sue. A specialist from Columbia University, Frederick Flynn, offered to examine her and stated that she was in perfect health. What? Which was odd. Yeah. Later, it turned out that Flynn was not a doctor, but a toxicologist on the US Radium payroll. Huh, interesting. Fun findings. This was part of a coordinated campaign by US Radium to conceal the health impacts of the work on former employees. US Radium had connections being a defense contractor with many government contacts. So no one wanted to go near the situation. It took Grace two years to find a lawyer who would agree. What did Grace in the situation have in common? Nobody wanted to go near them for their own safety. Raymond Berry, a young attorney from Newark, filed a suit in 1927. Four other factory women joined the suit. They were seeking $250,000 in damages. They came to be known as the Radium Girls. They were Grace Fryer, Edna Husman, Catherine Schaub, and sisters Quinta McDonald and Albina Larisse, who were also sisters of the late glowing Amelia Maggia. Wow. Both of Quinta's hips had fractured. Albina was bedridden. One of her legs now four inches shorter than the other. What? Edna Husman could barely shuffle across her room and her hair still glowed in the dark years after leaving the factory. Grace Fryer worked in a bank with a metal brace from neck to hips to support to supporters spine. Oh my god. Catherine Schaub's jaws were starting to break apart. Look at these fucking cripples. You fucking syphilitic cripples. I imagine having to be the guy who's like talking shit on that one. He's like, wow, these greedy. Sure, they'll pull at your heartstrings, but these greedy greedy. Oh, that one's hand fell off. You saw you saw our hand fall off. Right, gentlemen. Fucking hand. They're moving across the floor like cousin. It grabbed the hand. At this point, the situation was getting national media attention. News of their fight reached Marie Curie and Paris. Uh huh. Quote, I would only I would be only too happy to give any aid that I could. She said there's absolutely no means of destroying the substance once it enters the human body. She seems to be actually she knew because she'd been, you know, yeah, walking around with it in her pocket. Yeah, years. Yeah. Endless delays in hearing the case led to national outrage. Newspapers and public opinion were firmly on the side of the radium girls as their clear poor health was provoking sympathy. Yeah. Well, that one doesn't have a face. The public has syphilis. You're all syphilitic whores. Everybody who likes them is a whore with syphilis. The editor of the New York World newspaper wrote that the ongoing delays were a quote, damnable travesty of justice. There is no possible excuse for such a delay. The women are dying. If ever a case called for prompt added education, it is the case of five crippled women who are fighting for a few miserable dollars to ease their last days on earth. Jesus. 13 more dial workers had died in the three years since the lawsuit was filed. Jesus. The case finally made it to court. April 28 after being held up by endless delays and legal arguments. Also, the statute of limitations had now passed. Oh, good. Perfect. Back then, one could only sue within two years. Two years? That's my time. There's always room for my dick. Two years. And the right to sue an employer had never been tested. So this is just an error where nothing's tested. Yeah. They were also unable to prove that the uranium exposure had caused their illnesses. Meanwhile, the women's health deteriorated rapidly. Yeah. Then in the New York Emmy's office, Gettler proved there was a direct link between exposure to radium and illnesses and deaths being experienced by ex workers of US radium. The Newark court then ruled that the case should go to trial in June 1928. The next day, US radium offered to settle the case. 10,000 cash for each of the five women for X the clothing of $137,000 today and a 400 year pension and all medical costs covered for life. Yeah. But for life is like two or three years. Yeah. Lots of tops. Right? I mean, that one doesn't have eyes anymore. She has a black scene on the last one. By the way, somebody grab her. She's been trying to open the close. She's been trying to open the window for an hour. Who just glued a doorknob to the wall? She's baffled. Help her. She can't hear you anymore. Charles grab her. Get her leash. Oh, God, you grabbed her pull their arm off. Oh, God Christ. Put her put her down. Put her feeling that they had all proved their point against the powerful corporation they took the settlement all five of the radium radium girls died of their various illnesses throughout the 1930s. Through their suffering and fight, the radium girls left a great legacy the right of individual workers to sue an employer for damages for workplace injury. Wow. And saying that that was that was the thing. Yeah, they had to be fucking dying. Yeah. Well, it's how else was it going to happen in America? Yeah, I mean, seriously, I and what's shocking I'm shocked that it's still okay today. I it's like going to be it's going to be one of the things that goes away in the next 10 years. They'll find a way to like, well, no, you can't because it'll with the Roberts Court for sure. Yeah. In 1949, US Congress passed a bill making all occupational diseases compensable and extending the time a worker could discover illness and make a claim. Their case brought greater scrutiny to conditions in all factories, even though radium paint continued to be used until the 1960s, but workers receive proper instruction and safety equipment. So guys, you're not going to want to link the brushes. Something we've learned. In 1968, the Center for Human Radiobiology was established to provide medical support and to study the impact of radium on dial painters. No symptoms of radium poisoning were discovered in those workers who benefited from proper industrial training and occupation, health and safety measures. What a shit show. So yeah, unreal. Jesus dial. America is so into it's the worst. I mean, I think it's we are this is the worst country with it for sure. I well, no, there's even there's work. I mean, there's worse treatment of workers. But the couple, but the allowing the government allowing the corporations to just always we always are like, like it's just like any like smoking like smoke, you know what I mean? Like anything, they're like, not we're going to bullshit you for 50 years. And then when you prove it, we'll be like, my bad, and we'll figure it out then. But they just go down with the fucking ship. They really are just like stick like the memos that get in around or stick to the bullshit, stick to the bullshit. Find some asshole who's willing to say it over and over again and stick to the bullshit. Okay, so if you want to know the sources for this episode, go to the dash dollar dash sources dot squarespace.com. A lot of sources. That's what we do here on the dot.